DENVER -- The unofficial ambassador of this year's All-Star
Game got his chance to show that he, too, can play this game.
Carmelo Anthony took advantage of that opportunity, scoring 31
points Friday night to lead the sophomores to a 133-106 victory
over the rookies in a matchup between the top stars from the two
classes.
"It's another positive thing I can put on my resume," Anthony
said.
It was his only on-court appearance of this All-Star week -- a
period he has spent hosting parties, fund-raisers and generally
showing his friends a good time around his adopted hometown.
Given his one chance to play, Anthony teamed with LeBron James
for the first time since the Olympics, and fell just three points
short of his season high with the Nuggets. He was the game's Most
Valuable Player.


"I know he can play the game of basketball," James said.
"Things haven't gone his way so far this year, but he's trying to
get his mind straight. I'm so happy for him that he got the MVP
tonight. It was supposed to happen this way."
	   Recuperating from an injured ankle and a bout with the flu,
James had 20 points. Dwyane Wade finished with 12 points and nine
assists.
	   Even though this game will go down as a footnote during a
weekend full of them, Anthony said he was glad to have played well.
	   "I go out there and I play basketball," he said. "I can't put
my head down because I didn't make the game. Like I tell everybody,
this is only my second year in the NBA. I'm going to be here for a
long time. I'm not going anywhere."
	   Anthony's accomplishment came in a game that was surprisingly
competitive.
	   Led by a handful of dunks by Tony Allen of the Celtics, the
overmatched rookies -- who came in mainly seeking to avoid
embarrassment -- held their lead into the second half.
	   Not until James made a 16-footer with 16:47 left did the
sophomores take the lead for good.
	   "The sophomores spoke about it in the locker room at
halftime," rookie Luol Deng said. "They came out and played with
some intensity and we could see that."
	   As the half drew on, the sophomores' lead widened and play
loosened up, although it never reached the silliness of last year's
game, a 142-118 win for the sophomores that devolved into little
more than a dunking contest.
	   Commissioner David Stern promised that scene wouldn't be
repeated this year, and made it clear he wanted players' best
efforts in this exhibition.
"He didn't want the game like it was last year," Anthony said.
"It got a little out of hand, which we all agreed on."
	   With their coach, P.J. Carlesimo, pacing the sideline, Allen,
Deng and Al Jefferson led the rookies with 17 points each.
Chris Bosh had 26 points and 14 boards for the sophomores and
Kyle Korver had 21.
	   But Anthony was the star and the fan favorite. His fiance, MTV
VJ La La Vasquez, watched from her customary seat at courtside, and
every move he made was greeted by oohs and ahhs from the fans.
	   The game, as usual, was filled with great dunks, none better
than one early in the game when Wade feathered an underhanded pass
in the lane up high for James, who slammed it down hard.
	   James finished with four slams -- including a thundering windmill
dunk -- but that's all the fans will see until Sunday. He declined
an invitation to participate in Saturday's dunk contest. Earlier in
the day, he said it was because he didn't feel well enough. After
the game, he told a different story.
	   "Why don't guys do it anymore? Because all the dunks are
taken," James said. "There are no more dunks. If we come up with
some new dunks, people might do it. Every time there's a dunk out
there, people say they've seen it before."

HOUSTON -- Attention Josh Smith. You have competition.
Either Andre Iguodala was sending a message or he mistakenly thought it was Saturday already. Because whether it was an alley-oop or a breakaway or a forceful flush down the lane, the slam dunk contest participant was finishing jams as if judges were watching from the sideline with scorecards in their hands.
Only this was still Friday and he was playing in the Rookie Challenge.
No matter, his skills didn't go unnoticed as he was named the MVP of the contest -- the usual run and cherry pick affair that had the Sophomores win again, this time 106-96.
"The whole team realized he was feeling it," said Bulls second-year forward Luol Deng. "We wanted to give him the ball. We all told coach to put him back in the game. When anyone's feeling it ... We're all here to have fun, we wanna watch it."
They got their money's worth as Iguodala finished with 30 points on 13-for-17 shooting and even threw in four 3-pointers to remind the crowd that he's not just a dunker.
With the game decided early in the second half, the crowd was left anticipating something spectacular every time he touched the ball and psyched for his appearance in tomorrow night's slam dunk competition, wondering if he has anything left in the tank.
"I've got a couple of things under my sleeve," he said. "Everything I did today, you've seen before. I am going to try some new things tomorrow."
For now, he'll let the raw athleticism of the next generation of NBA stars linger -- the high-flying acts of Iguodala and company, the skilled passing of big men like Andrew Bogut, and even the rhythmic steps of Devin Harris, Dwight Howard and Nate Robinson, who did the electric slide with some kids from New York during halftime.
The outcome of the game was a secondary afterthought.
"You only get one rookie season," said Chris Paul, who had a game-high 11 assists. "So, I hate that we lost, but this was one of the best games I've ever played in."
It was even sweeter for the sophs who lost as rookies in 2005.
"We got whooped last year," said Harris. "We had to return the favor."
But not without being impressed by the newcomers, especially Charlie Villauneva, Toronto's controversial No. 7 pick, who finished with 18 points and 12 rebounds in 27 minutes.
"Charlie was pretty impressive," said Deng, who checked the Raptors rookie throughout the night. "I thought they played well, but we just picked it up a little."
By constantly feeding the hot hand of Iguodala, who was humbled by the MVP award.
"Being that so many great players have gotten this award -- Carmelo Anthony, Amare Stoudemire, Allen Iverson -- hopefully that trend can continue," he said.
"It's a confidence booster."
As if he needed more ups.
Matt Wong is an NBA editor at ESPN.com.

Twelve and a half feet is very high.
I walked down on the court after the dunk contest and looked up at the custom sticker Dwight Howard had stuck way up there. It was a little dizzying. Not to be gushy, but it was way up there. I suspect that if I stood on Dwight Howard's shoulders, I still wouldn't be able to even reach it. And I'd be scared to be up there.
I peered up at that sticker. Unfathomable, but apparently real -- as the whole thing was on international TV and exceedingly well documented. All the same, I urge you to look up at the top of the backboard from down below some time. Imagine a sticker a few inches shy of the top, and wonder: Could a human put that up there? Without divine intervention?
Yes.
Or no.
A photographer with a telephoto lens helped me get a good look at that sticker, and in addition to a pre-printed image of Howard's face, his initials, and his number, there was handwritten marker. Not too big. In fact, even with the lens it was very tough to read.
In this life, you always have to read the fine print. And the fine print on that sticker made clear that Howard, at least, doesn't believe he did it alone.
"All things through Christ" Howard had written in marker. Then "Phil 4:13." That's Philippians 4:13.
Asked about it, Howard recited in a heartbeat: "I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me."
Strengtheneth indeed.
Remember, Dwight Howard's Plan A for this contest was to dunk on a 12-foot rim, but the league nixed the idea earlier in the week. So Howard needed an inventive way to demonstrate his singular advantage: combining his height, his reach, and his hops to get a hand up higher than anybody else.
It was so inventive that at first plenty of people here in the arena couldn't even understand it. This was an idea from Mars, or Lovetron, or wherever it is the good dunks come from. It stretched the mind. For a few seconds, nobody knew exactly what happened. He put a sticker up there? He had a sticker? In his hand? What?
ESPN.com contributor David Thorpe of Scouts Inc. text-messaged me seconds after it happened: "I hate dunk contests," he wrote. "But that was the coolest dunk I've ever seen."
Who can disagree?
No one I have talked to, except, apparently, the judges. Howard got a measly 42, the second-lowest score of any dunk in the first round. Julius Erving and Michael Jordan both gave it an 8. I don't know what criteria they were judging by, but whatever it was, I say inventiveness was undervalued.
Hats off to 2007 Slam-Dunk champ Gerald Green, a worthy champion, but a year from now that sticker dunk is the one we're all going to remember.
Henry Abbott writes TrueHoop.com.

LAS VEGAS -- David Lee still sports the remnants of a black
eye, sustained in a recent game while trying to prevent a dunk.
He found things much easier Friday night.
The NBA's leading shooter had a field day in a game with no
defense, going 14-for-14 from the field and scoring 30 points to
lead the sophomores to a 155-114 victory over the rookies in the
rookie challenge.
"I don't think there was going to be any flagrant fouls or
anything by either team tonight," Lee said. "It was a pretty
wide-open game."
Monta Ellis of Golden State added 28 points on a number of dunks
as the sophomores set a game scoring record, surpassing the 142
points they scored in 2004. They shot 74.7 percent (68-of-91) and
have won the last five games.
Lee, who leads the NBA in field-goal percentage at 61.2 percent,
was voted the game's MVP. Chris Paul, the reigning Rookie of the
Year, added 16 points, 17 assists and nine steals.
Rudy Gay of Memphis and Utah's Paul Millsap each scored 22
points for the rookies, who never led and trailed by as many as 43
points.
"Next year, when we come back, we're not going to be as happy
to be here," Portland's Brandon Roy said. "We're going to be
ready. They caught us off-guard."
Bill Russell sat next to the rookie bench, and he might have
been reminded of his old rival, Wilt Chamberlain, while watching
Lee. Chamberlain had three games where he was perfect on 15 or more
attempts, including an 18-for-18 night on Feb. 24, 1967.
Lee played sparingly as a rookie, but has developed into perhaps
the hardest-working and most popular player on the Knicks. He
averages 11.2 points and 10.6 rebounds, and could be a candidate
for either the most improved player or sixth man award.
"I was hoping for the opportunity and I was really happy to get
it," Lee said. "My teammates helped out as well this year and
then to just get in a game like this is all about just having
fun."
Lee scored the first four points, and the game really wasn't
close after that. Houston's Luther Head gave the sophomores a 26-15
lead with a 3-pointer with 13:31 left in the half, and the rookies
never got within single digits again.
The rookies looked helpless later in the half, when Ellis had
five alley-oop dunks in a span of less than three minutes, pushing the
lead to 31 points on his final one.
The second-year players shot 78 percent (35-for-45) in the first
half, with Paul recording 11 assists in 11 minutes off the bench.
Ellis was 7-for-7 in the half.
"It was just like playing with us, with Golden State," Ellis
said. "We had a lot of guys who can run up and down and pass the
ball and shoot.
"Me and Chris [Paul] were talking about it before the game, and
I said, 'No matter where you throw it up, I'll go get it."'
Lee added five more field goals in the first 5 minutes of the
second half, and the lead ballooned to 40 on Raymond Felton's
3-pointer a few minutes later.
Last year's draft was considered a weak one, and the rookies did
nothing to change that opinion. Even when they seemed to do
something right, it went wrong.
Gay powerfully blocked one of Ellis' shoots off the backboard,
but he was called for goaltending and it turned into a three-point
play because Ellis had been fouled while taking his shot.
Ellis was 13-of-16 from the floor. Utah's Deron Williams scored
19 points and Felton had 17.
Adam Morrison finished with 16 points for the rookies. Andrea
Bargnani, the No. 1 overall pick, had 12 on 5-for-11 shooting.
"I had a lot of fun, but I wish we would have competed a little
better," Morrison said. "Hopefully I'm back here with the
sophomores team, and then I can do that to the rookie team."
The game was sponsored by T-Mobile, which teamed with the NBA to
host more than 6,000 area students in the lower section of the
arena.

Some would argue Brandon Roy is one of the best in the league, regardless of experience. In the deep Western Conference, he's not an All-Star starter, however. The Portland Trail Blazers star was then a lock to be chosen for the Rookie Challenge -- pitting the league's best second- and first-year players Feb. 15 in New Orleans.
On Wednesday, NBA.com revealed the squads, which were selected by NBA assistant coaches.
Seattle SuperSonics rookie Kevin Durant heads up the rookies and will be joined by teammate Jeff Green.
Forward LaMarcus Aldridge teams with fellow Blazer Roy on the sophomore squad, which also features Boston Celtics guard Rajon Rondo, Cleveland Cavaliers guard Daniel Gibson, Los Angeles Lakers guard Jordan Farmar, Memphis Grizzlies forward Rudy Gay, Toronto Raptors forward Andrea Bargnani, and two Utah Jazz teammates, guard
Ronnie Brewer and forward Paul Millsap.
Playing with Durant will be Atlanta Hawks forward Al Horford, Houston Rockets forward Luis Scola, Memphis Grizzlies guards Mike Conley and Juan Carlos Navarro, Milwaukee Bucks forward Yi Jianlian, New Jersey Nets center Sean Williams, and Raptors forward Jamario Moon,
Roy, who is averaging 19.4 points, 5.6 assists and 4.4 rebounds, could still be selected as an All-Star reserve on Thursday night. Any player selected to both squads will be eligible to play in both games, but Roy indicated after Wednesday's loss to the Cavaliers that he would skip the rookie game if he was selected as an All-Star reserve.
The lead assistants for the Feb. 17 All-Star Game will coach the Rookie-Sophomore contest (TNT, ESPN Radio).

PHILADELPHIA -- Ray Allen is again on All-Star standby.
Allen made the All-Star team each of the past two seasons as an injury replacement and he's on call again now that Orlando's Jameer Nelson will miss the game with a shoulder injury. If picked, Allen will play for an Eastern Conference team that already boasts his Celtics teammates, Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett.
"I'm like the National Guard," Allen said on Tuesday. "When I'm called on, I do my duty."
Allen was widely considered one of the biggest All-Star snubs when the reserves were announced last week. Allen is averaging 18 points for the NBA-best Celtics, who had 40 wins entering Tuesday's game at Philadelphia. Allen was added to last year's Eastern Conference team when Washington's Caron Butler was injured and he was picked as a Western Conference sub when he played for Seattle in 2007.
Nelson could miss the rest of the season for the Magic because of a torn labrum in his right shoulder. He was selected to his first All-Star Game and was to compete in the skills challenge Feb. 14 in Phoenix. Allen felt bad for Nelson, but would love to fill in and be added to his ninth All-Star team.
"It doesn't taint me being an All-Star in any form or fashion," he said. "Hopefully everybody feels that same way. Every player in the NBA wants to be an All-Star."
His Boston teammate, Rajon Rondo, and Cleveland's Mo Williams are also among the likely replacements. NBA commissioner David Stern will pick the reserve.
"Until they tell me it's different, I'm not going," Allen said. "They could always pick somebody else."
The Celtics also played their second straight game without Garnett, who was inactive because of the flu. He missed Sunday's game against Minnesota with a high fever. Garnett missed Boston's 109-101 victory that stretched its winning streak to 11 games.
Coach Doc Rivers said he'd work out Garnett on Wednesday, "just to get his wind back."
"He smells things 75 percent of the league can't," Rivers said.

PHOENIX -- Mo Williams has a second role at All-Star weekend.
A day after finally making the Eastern Conference team as an injury replacement, the Cleveland point guard was picked Wednesday to appear in the skills challenge.
Williams will replace Orlando's Jameer Nelson, who has a torn right labrum that also forced him to pull out of the All-Star Game.
Boston's Ray Allen was chosen by commissioner David Stern for that spot, which the Cavaliers felt should have gone to Williams. Williams was finally chosen by Stern on Tuesday to replace injured Toronto forward Chris Bosh.
Williams will compete against New Jersey's Devin Harris, Chicago rookie Derrick Rose and San Antonio's Tony Parker in the event Saturday night.

PHOENIX -- Childhood friends Kevin Durant and Michael Beasley treated the Rookie Challenge like a playground duel back in Maryland.
Oklahoma City's Durant came out on top, scoring a Rookie Challenge-record 46 points to lead the NBA's sophomores to a 122-116 victory over the rookies on Friday night.
Durant shattered the record of 36 set by Phoenix's Amare Stoudemire as a sophomore in 2004. Miami's Beasley was pretty good, too, leading the rookies with 29 points.
"Kevin's a great player and I'm just glad to be on the court with him," said Beasley, like Durant a No. 2 overall pick in the draft. "I'm happy to be mentioned in the same breath as him."
Decked out in Day-Glo orange high-tops, Durant hit 17 of 25 shots from the floor, 4-of-8 from beyond the arc, and made all eight of his free throws. Durant also tied for the team lead with seven rebounds.
Durant helped hold off a late charge by the rookies with a three-point play, an emphatic dunk and two free throws in the final minutes.
"I approached it like a regular game," Durant said. "I wanted to go out and have fun. Fortunately my shots were going down."
With a few seconds remaining, Durant and Beasley put their arms around each other and laughed.
"Our relationship goes way, way back," Beasley said. "To be in this type of atmosphere, in the NBA together, is a blessing. It's a dream come true. It's rare."
Portland center Greg Oden missed the game with an injury, which is not so rare.
Oden was a late scratch with a sore left knee after bumping into Golden State's Corey Maggette on Thursday night. Though he was drafted two years ago, Oden was a member of the rookie team because he missed last season with a knee injury.
The rookies could have used a healthy Oden. They've lost seven straight in the game designed to showcase some of the league's bright young talent during its All-Star weekend festivities.
Asked about the rookies' seven-game losing streak, Beasley shook his head and said, "I definitely have to jump to the sophomore side and make it eight now."
Unlike some Rookie Challenges, this one was competitive until the final seconds.
"We didn't want it to be a landslide," Beasley said. "That's when the pride kicked in. That's when we decided to fight, but by then it was too late."
The rookies closed to 119-116 on a jumper by O.J. Mayo with 11 seconds left. But Durant made two free throws to push the lead back to five.
Like the All-Star game, defense was an afterthought with all the high-flying talent on the floor at U.S. Airways Center.
In the first of two 20-minute halves, the sophomores shot 68.4 percent from the floor, including 63.6 percent from beyond the arc. The rookies lagged at an almost embarrassing 52.6 percent from the field, and 40 percent from 3-point range, but still led 61-58 at intermission.
Each bucket brought shrieks from thousands of pink-clad schoolchildren in prime seats in the lower bowl of the Phoenix Suns' home.
"It is one of the bigger stages," Durant said before the game. "We just want to do it justice by coming out and playing hard."
Durant was no ballhog. On a two-on-none breakaway in the second half, the crowd roared in anticipation as Durant dribbled toward the bucket. But Durant flicked the ball off the backboard to the 6-foot Aaron Brooks, who caught the pass but missed the jam.
Brooks may have been blinded by Durant's orange shoes, easily the game's most dazzling fashion statement.
The only thing brighter was a canary vest worn by rookies assistant coach Dwyane Wade, who otherwise looked like a professor in his spectacles, bow tie and gray suit.
Wade served as an assistant to rookies coach Kurt Rambis, while Dwight Howard assisted sophomores coach John Kuester.
"I couldn't have had a better co-head coach than Dwight tonight," Kuester said.
"Thanks, coach," Howard replied. "You are going to make me cry."
The teams wore jerseys -- white for the sophomores, purple for the rookies -- designed by 18-year-old Tim Ahmed from East Meadow, N.Y. It was the first time a fan-designed jersey has ever been worn during an NBA game or event; in the past, rookies and sophomores wore their regular team jerseys.
The game was more about having fun than actual competition. But Beasley said he came to win.
"It is not cool when you lose," he said before the game. "I like to be the cool guy. Cool guys don't lose. I will play hard."
There was plenty of good-natured showboating. Rookie guard Russell Westbrook dunked and then bobbed his head at Durant, his Oklahoma City teammate.
When Durant hung on the rim after an emphatic dunk early in the second half, Beasley signaled for a technical foul. The officials simply smiled.

WASHINGTON --  It's another call for public service from President Barack Obama.
He says all Americans should help out in their communities. That could mean reading to children or repairing basketball courts.
The basketball-playing president taped a message for Sunday night's NBA All-Star Game in Phoenix. The White House released excerpts ahead of the broadcast. Obama's taped message will air at halftime.
The president is encouraging people to visit a Web site -- www.USAService.org -- to find jobs that need done near their homes. He says everything from putting together care packages for troops and fixing up basketball courts can help.

Phoenix Suns center Channing Frye has been selected for the All-Star Weekend's 3-point Shootout in Arlington, Texas, according to a report in The Arizona Republic.
Frye would become the first center to compete in the 3-point contest since Seattle's Sam Perkins, a forward-center, in 1997.
Frye, who ranks second in the NBA with 114 3-pointers made, is shooting 44 percent from beyond the arc, which is seventh-best in the league.
Frye joined the Suns as a free agent this season, his fifth in the league, after two seasons with both the New York Knicks and Portland Trail Blazers.

DALLAS -- Would-be starters Kobe Bryant and Allen Iverson are out of the NBA All-Star Game.
Jason Kidd of the hometown Dallas Mavericks has been chosen to replace Bryant. New York's David Lee is replacing Iverson.
An ankle injury has prevented Bryant from playing in the Los Angeles Lakers' past three games. Iverson has missed Philadelphia's last five games because one of his young children is ill.
Both informed the league on Thursday that they needed to withdraw from Sunday's game, sources said.
NBA commissioner David Stern, who makes all selections on All-Star injury replacements, then chose Kidd to make his 10th All-Star appearance. Kidd -- who ranks fifth in the league in assists (9.3 per game) -- had already left Dallas to begin an All-Star break vacation in the Phoenix area and is expected to fly back to Dallas on Friday.
Mavericks owner Mark Cuban said it took a little lobbying to league officials to name Kidd as Bryant's replacement.
"But once we laid it out, they were really excited about it," Cuban told reporters in Dallas.
Although he is still scheduled to travel to Dallas and take part in All-Star Weekend festivities as a spectator, Bryant is the third West guard to pull out of Sunday's game through injury. Stern chose Denver's Chauncey Billups to replace New Orleans' Chris Paul (knee) and Los Angeles Clippers center Chris Kaman to take the spot of Portland's Brandon Roy (hamstring).
Golden State's Monta Ellis, sixth in the league in scoring at 26.2 points per game, might have been a contender to replace Bryant but suffered a knee strain in Tuesday's home loss to Dallas that forced him to miss Wednesday's win over the Clippers.
Iverson has averaged 14.4 points in 25 games since returning to the Sixers in December and earned more than 1 million votes in fan balloting to earn an East starting spot. Iverson will not be required to travel to Dallas because he's missing the game for personal reasons.Curry b
Lee is averaging 20 points and 11.4 rebounds and becomes the Knicks' first All-Star since Allan Houston and Latrell Sprewell in 2001. Stern chose Lee over Milwaukee center Andrew Bogut, who is averaging 16.0 points and 10.2 rebounds and has helped lead the Bucks to within a game of a playoff spot in the East.
West coach George Karl and East coach Stan Van Gundy will choose the players who will replace Bryant and Iverson in the respective starting lineups.
It's expected that Mavericks forward Dirk Nowitzki, who just missed out on a starting spot in fan voting when San Antonio's Tim Duncan passed him in the final ballot tally, will replace Bryant as a starter with the West.
ESPNDallas.com's Tim MacMahon contributed to this report.

DALLAS -- Toronto rookie DeMar DeRozan has won the inaugural All-Star "Dunk-In" to earn a place in the slam dunk contest.
DeRozan defeated Los Angeles Clippers guard Eric Gordon at halftime of the rookie challenge on Friday night. Each player had two dunks, and Gordon struggled to put his first one down.
DeRozan earned 61 percent from fans who voted online and by text message. He will compete against defending champion Nate Robinson, Charlotte All-Star Gerald Wallace and Lakers guard Shannon Brown on Saturday night during the final event of All-Star Saturday night.

DALLAS -- Pau Gasol and "Team Los Angeles" fell in the finals of the NBA All-Star Haier Shooting Stars competition Saturday to Dirk Nowitzki and "Team Texas."
Team L.A., comprised of Gasol, TNT analyst Brent Barry and Marie Ferdinand-Harris of the WNBA's Los Angeles Sparks finished with a final round time of 55.2 seconds. Team Texas finished with a time of 34.3 seconds to win the title in front of the hometown fans.
Gasol had a chance to win the final round with a half-court shot, but his attempt missed off the rim.
Team Los Angeles finished the first round with a time of 1:00. Barry, playing in his old Los Angeles Clippers uniform, and Ferdinand-Harris both made their first shot from the left and right foul line extended, respectively. Gasol went 1-for-5 from 3-point land at the top of the key and then 0-for-3 from half court before Barry hit a halfcourt shot to end the round.
Dave McMenamin covers the Lakers for ESPNLosAngeles.com.


NEW YORK --  Blake Griffin is going to his first All-Star game, and Kevin Garnett matched an NBA record Thursday with his 14th straight selection as one of a record-tying four Boston Celtics headed for the midseason event.
Rajon Rondo, Paul Pierce and Ray Allen will accompany Garnett, who equaled Jerry West, Shaquille O'Neal and Karl Malone for the most consecutive selections. The Celtics joined the 2006 Detroit Pistons as the only teams to have four players picked as reserves by the coaches.
Griffin, the Rookie of the Year favorite of the Clippers, will become the first rookie All-Star since Yao Ming in 2003. Joining Griffin on the Western Conference team for the Feb. 20 game at Staples Center were Tim Duncan and Manu Ginobili of the NBA-leading Spurs; forwards Dirk Nowitzki of Dallas and Pau Gasol of the Lakers; and guards Deron Williams of Utah and Russell Westbrook of Oklahoma City. Westbrook and Griffin are the only first-time selections.
Chris Bosh will go to Los Angeles with Miami teammates LeBron James and Dwyane Wade, who were elected as starters.
"It matters to me, I would've been really disappointed [if I didn't make it]," Bosh said. "Guys will say they want the time off but then if they don't call your name, you'll be a little tight. It is still getting the accolade and the award and knowing for another year you're an All-Star."
The other East reserves picked were Atlanta's Joe Johnson and Al Horford.
The reserves were selected in voting by the head coaches in each conference, who had to vote for two forwards, two guards, a center and two players regardless of position.
They went for the winning teams in the East, whose reserves are represented by just three teams.
"There hasn't been too many times where you've had this kind of competition at the top of the Eastern Conference with such good teams," Wade said. "So looking at the All-Star team, you understand that most guys are going to be from a few teams. That's how it should be in the Eastern Conference. The Western Conference is a different argument."
The voting was much more difficult in the West, where coaches bypassed the likes of forwards Kevin Love, LaMarcus Aldridge, Zach Randolph and Lamar Odom.
"It was difficult," said Spurs coach Gregg Popovich, who will coach the West team. "When we sat down, there were a lot of great names to choose from. At every position, you leave someone out."
Tony Parker missed out despite being the second-leading scorer for the Spurs, who entered Thursday's game against the Lakers at 40-8. Veteran Steve Nash of the Suns and the Warriors' Monta Ellis, the league's sixth-leading scorer, also fell short.
"I think every year it's hard for point guards to make it, because there are so many great point guards in this league, especially in the West," Williams said. "There are always young guys that are coming into the league and it's going to continue to be a fight every year. That's another reason I feel so honored."
The starters were chosen by fan voting and announced last week. Orlando's Dwight Howard, Chicago's Derrick Rose and Knicks forward Amare Stoudemire are the other East starters, while the Lakers' Kobe Bryant, Hornets guard Chris Paul, forwards Carmelo Anthony of Denver and Kevin Durant of Oklahoma City, and Houston center Yao were the winners from the West.
Yao is injured and Commissioner David Stern will choose a replacement. That gives another chance to Love, who is averaging 21.4 points and a league-best 15.5 rebounds, and shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range. He has 34 straight double-doubles but was undoubtedly hurt by his Minnesota Timberwolves' 11-37 record.
But the coaches couldn't overlook Griffin, even though the Clippers are also below .500. The No. 1 pick in the 2009 draft has been spectacular after sitting out last season following knee surgery, averaging 23 points and 12.7 rebounds while compiling a half season of highlights with his array of dunks.
The East will be coached by the Celtics' Doc Rivers, who said earlier Thursday that he hoped his four players would be rewarded and said he would play them all together.
"That way we can run offense in the All-Star game," Rivers said. "That'd be a first."
The Celtics (1953, '62 and '75); Lakers ('62 and '98) and 76ers ('83) also had four All-Stars. But only the Pistons, with Chauncey Billups, Richard Hamilton, Ben Wallace and Rasheed Wallace, had four reserves selected by the coaches.
The Heat's own Big Three was recognized when Bosh was selected to his sixth All-Star game, even though his numbers have dropped significantly in his first year since leaving Toronto.
"Chris is definitely one of the top 24 guys that we have in this league, definitely one of the top 12 guys that we have in the Eastern Conference. So I don't think it's much of a debate," James said. "Happy for him, absolutely. To be able to take three guys off one team, just compliments this team, first of all, and then our individual talents put together that we're able to represent the Miami Heat that weekend."
Duncan earned his 13th straight selection despite career-low numbers. Although Popovich has been monitoring Duncan's minutes with the Spurs, the coach isn't worried about a little extra playing time at Staples Center for his veteran big man.
"I'm actually thrilled that he was chosen," Popovich said. "He's been the bulwark of what we do for a number of years. We have a pretty good record [this season], and he's a big part of that."

NEW YORK --  Kevin Love will be going to the NBA All-Star Game.
The NBA's leading rebounder was added to the Western Conference roster on Friday night by commissioner David Stern as the injury replacement for Houston center Yao Ming.
Love said he was "shocked" when Rambis delivered the news about his All-Star nod in front of the entire team about 30 minutes before the game.
"I was looking at him like 'What are you talking about?' " Love said. "I looked around like 'Is Ashton Kutcher about to pop up in here?' "
Love was arguably the biggest snub when reserves were announced Thursday night. He entered play Friday averaging 21.4 points and 15.5 rebounds, and shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range. He has 34 straight double-doubles, but was undoubtedly hurt by his Minnesota Timberwolves' 11-37 record when West coaches voted.
West coach Gregg Popovich will determine who will start the Feb. 20 game for Yao, who is out for the season with a stress fracture in his left ankle.
Love played in the All-Star rookie-sophomore game in 2010, finishing with 12 points and six rebounds.
"I remember sitting on a plane last year with [team president David Kahn]," Love said. "He said 'Maybe one day you'll be in the game on Sunday.' I was thinking to myself 'Wouldn't it be nice if it was back home in L.A.,' and here I am."
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

LOS ANGELES --  Justin Bieber finally won a trophy in L.A.
The teen singing sensation, who was shut out at the Grammys, was chosen most valuable player despite playing for the losing team in the NBA All-Star celebrity game on Friday night.
Bieber had eight points, four assists and two rebounds for the West team, which lost 54-49 to the East at the Los Angeles Convention Center.
Hall of Famer Scottie Pippen led the Bill Walton-coached East team with 17 points in a game whose defensive highlight might have been Pippen's third-quarter block of Bieber.
The vertically challenged Bieber scampered up and down the court, his famous shaggy 'do bouncing with every step as girls shrieked at the sight.
"He has the softest hair," marveled former Los Angeles Laker Rick Fox, who patted his West teammate Bieber on the head during the game.
Wearing a black T-shirt under his red-and-white jersey, Bieber spent most of the game hitching up his shorts that fell well below the knee. His pregame stretching included trying, but failing, to touch his toes.
Bieber showed off some slick moves, dribbling behind his back, and driving and dishing to taller teammate and ESPN analyst Jalen Rose. Bieber fed A.C. Green for the game's first basket, and the singer later hit a 3-pointer.
"I'm just running back and forth," Bieber said during an in-game interview. "I'm controlling this whole team. I'm just kidding."
With actor Jamie Foxx and Lakers star Lamar Odom watching, Bieber missed a 3-pointer that would have tied it with 30 seconds to go. Afterward, the 16-year-old was hurried off the court by burly security guards.
Bieber's week began when he lost out on his two Grammy nominations at Staples Center. But things picked up with another TV guest appearance on "CSI" and his "Never Say Never" concert movie was No. 2 at the box office.
Bieber's celebrity teammates were Zac Levi of "Chuck," R&B singer Trey Songz, rapper Romeo Miller, and Rob Kardashian, whose sister Khloe is married to Odom.
"He didn't embarrass the family," Odom said afterward.
Besides Rob and Khloe, who stood out in skintight leopard leggings, the Kardashian clan was represented by their stepfather Bruce Jenner and Khloe's half-sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner.
WNBA player Swin Cash was on the West team coached by Magic Johnson.
Celebs on the East team were actor and comedian Nick Cannon, Jason Sudeikis of "Saturday Night Live," rapper and actor Common, and Michael Rapaport of "Pound Puppies."
They were bolstered by the shooting prowess of former NBA players Mitch Richmond and Chris Mullin, and WNBA player Tamika Catchings.

LOS ANGELES --  When John Wall turned the Rookie Challenge into a personal playmaking clinic, his former Kentucky teammate and his fellow No. 1 pick eagerly soaked up everything he had to give.
Wall racked up a record 22 assists to win the MVP award, Sacramento's DeMarcus Cousins had 33 points and 14 rebounds, and the rookies rallied to beat the sophomores 148-140 at the NBA's All-Star weekend Friday night.
Blake Griffin scored 14 points for the rookies in front of the high-flying Clippers forward's ecstatic home crowd, sticking to his commitment to play in the game even after making the West team for Sunday's All-Star game.
All three rookie stars were determined to give a little something extra, and they were rewarded with a win.
"Most people that have a good game here, it gives them confidence going into the second half of the season," Wall said.
Before the game, the Washington guard looked up the Rookie Challenge's assists record -- 17, by Chris Paul in 2007 -- and told Cousins he planned to beat it. Wall scored 12 points when he wasn't repeatedly setting up his fellow rookies for acrobatic dunks and wide-open jumpers.
With relentless offense from Wall and Cousins, who teamed up for one season at Kentucky, the newcomers won the lighthearted contest between the NBA's best rookies and second-year players for the second straight year.
"We were trying to work together," Cousins said. "He wanted to break the assist record, and I wanted to be MVP."
To the accompaniment of supersonic screams from thousands of children crammed into Staples Center's lower bowl, both teams went through the usual array of alley-oops, breakaway jams and matador defense before the rookies pulled away in the final minutes.
Wall created the game's biggest highlight with a jaw-dropping bounce pass to Griffin for an electrifying dunk.
"Whenever you see 32 in a Clippers uniform out of the side, you basically throw it anywhere in the gym," Wall said. "I knew if I bounced it high enough, he will just attack the play."
Although Griffin was the top pick out of Oklahoma in the sophomores' 2009 draft class, he's still a rookie after missing last season with a broken kneecap. Mindful of his workload during the busiest All-Star weekend for any player in recent memory, Griffin then watched his team's late surge from the bench despite thousands of children chanting, "We want Blake!"
"I didn't get to go to practice today, so that was all on the fly," said Griffin, also the strong favorite in Saturday's slam dunk contest. "[Wall] is a great passer, so he made it easy for me. It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, so I'm making the best out of it. Being home for the All-Star weekend is a lot of fun."
Wall and Cousins switched roles for the rookies' final basket with 12.8 seconds left, with Cousins lofting a pass off the backboard for an emphatic two-handed dunk by Wall, who hung on the rim for emphasis.
Cousins went 15 for 24 in the fourth highest-scoring performance in Rookie Challenge history, matching LeBron James' 33 points in 2004. Catching passes from Wall was a welcome respite for Cousins during a rocky rookie season in Sacramento, most recently including a suspension for fighting with teammate Donte Greene after a game last week.
"I had some flashbacks [to Kentucky]," Cousins said. "It was fun being out there with John. That year didn't last long enough, but it's over now."
Los Angeles native James Harden scored 30 points for the sophomores, and San Antonio's DeJuan Blair had 28 points and 15 rebounds.
Griffin was hit in the nose by an accidental elbow from Blair while playing defense in the opening minutes but kept playing. He left the game wincing a few possessions later but didn't appear limited when he returned later.
In the final minutes of a tight game, the kids began chanting insistently for Griffin -- with rookies coach Kevin McHale egging them on. With a towel draped on his head, Griffin responded with a sheepish grin, but sat out the final 12:25.
"I wish I could have gone back out there," said Griffin, the first rookie All-Star in eight years. "But they kind of put a limit on it, so that was that."
Sacramento's Tyreke Evans, last season's MVP with 26 points for the rookies, sat out of the sophomores' lineup with an injured left foot. Harden replaced him.

LOS ANGELES --  With a gospel choir at midcourt encouraging him to fly, Blake Griffin soared over a car and threw down a two-handed dunk.
The rookie's remarkable leap won the slam dunk contest, and it also drove home the clear point of All-Star Saturday: The Clippers' rising star is just at the beginning of one thrilling ride.
Griffin easily cleared the hood of the 2011 Kia Optima and caught a pass from teammate Baron Davis out of the sunroof while the berobed Crenshaw Select Choir sang "I Believe I Can Fly," winning the 26th NBA dunk contest in iconic style before his hometown fans.
"There's a little pressure on us to really put on a show, but I thought those guys all did a great job," said Griffin, who beat Washington's Javale McGee in the final.
Griffin grew up watching and rewatching every dunk contest on videotape with his brother in Oklahoma, studying the event's evolution. He said the car dunk was his idea from the very start -- a perfect way to show off his combination of raw athleticism and Hollywood flair.
"When they first came to me ... they said there were no rules," Griffin said. "I was like, 'So I can jump over a car? Yeah? Oh, maybe I have to do it now.' I figured I could probably clear it, and Baron came up with the choir."
The move could have petrified the Clippers, with the star-crossed franchise's epic history of bad luck -- even with Griffin, who missed all of last season after breaking his kneecap in the final preseason game before what was supposed to be the No. 1 pick's rookie campaign.
Griffin has become internationally famous for his incredible dunks, but a leap over a car? Sounds like a Clipper Curse moment just waiting to happen.
Clippers owner Donald Sterling was in attendance, perhaps watching between the fingers of the hand over his eyes.
"I could have clipped my foot, I guess," Griffin said. "That's what I was afraid of -- just clip my foot on the side and smash my face into the car. Fortunately, it worked out."
Griffin barely made it out of the first round after missing several attempts at his second dunk of the first round. But with an entire building solidly behind him, McGee and Toronto's DeMar DeRozan -- a Los Angeles native -- really didn't stand a chance despite their own creative dunks at Staples Center.
McGee earned a 99 with two spectacularly inventive slams in the first round, but kicked himself for using a three-ball stunt earlier than he intended after Oklahoma City's Serge Ibaka did something similar to what he had planned for the first round.
"Definitely, he came prepared with a car," said the 7-foot McGee, who scored a perfect 50 by dunking on two baskets simultaneously in his first attempt. "Nothing is going to beat that, unless I bring a plane out or something."
Earlier, Miami's James Jones held off Boston teammates Paul Pierce and Ray Allen to win his first 3-point shootout, and Golden State's Stephen Curry won the Skills Challenge.
But Saturday was all about Griffin, who started the contest with a 360-degree spin dunk before converting a bounce pass off the side of the backboard to finish the first round.
The first rookie All-Star in eight years then brought back an impossibly difficult favorite with his first dunk of the final, sticking his arm into the hoop and hanging from it by his elbow, just as Vince Carter did while winning the 2000 contest.
And when fans saw a car driving out of the arena tunnel, they waved the checkered flag on this race.
Griffin is in the midst of the busiest All-Star weekend for anybody in the NBA's recent history. He scored 14 points in Friday's Rookie Challenge, and he stayed in the dunk contest even after getting chosen for the West squad in Sunday's main event.
All four dunkers distinguished themselves in Hollywood, showing planning and invention in what's sometimes a slapdash event.
Ibaka took the court amid several banners for NBA Africa and promptly threw down a Dr. J-style long-jump dunk from the free throw line. Ibaka retrieved a stuffed toy off the rim with his mouth while throwing down his second dunk.
"My first dunk was from the free throw line and it was good," Ibaka said. "The second one, nobody did it before in the NBA. ... [But] it's amazing to see Blake Griffin do a show like he did. He did a great job."
McGee brought out a second basket standard attached to a forklift, placing right next to the regular backboard. After several misses, he managed to throw down a left-handed dunk while tossing the other ball off the board to himself for a right-handed jam.
McGee joined Griffin in the second round by dunking three balls on the same leap, slapping home a pass for the third jam. DeRozan couldn't make the final round despite an impressive second dunk in which he threw a pass to himself off the backboard for a windmill reverse jam.
After Griffin's elbow dunk in the final, McGee floated underneath the rim and threw down an impossibly twisting jam from the other side.
That's when Griffin rolled out his wheels.
McGee made another difficult dunk in his final attempt, but Griffin received 68 percent of the fan voting that determines the final result.
Griffin chuckled when asked whether he'll defend his title next year in Orlando.
"We'll see. I have to come up with something else," he said. "Maybe a boat next year."
Earlier, the Heat finally beat the Celtics at something this season, thanks to Jones' smooth shooting stroke.
Jones, an eight-year veteran who rarely shoots inside the 3-point line, made five straight shots late in the final round with his ground-bound style. Pierce was the defending champion, and Allen recently became the NBA's career leader in 3-pointers.
"Those guys were cheering for me, rooting for me," said Jones, whose new-look Heat have lost three straight this season to the Celtics. "We know we've had our struggles against the Celtics in the past, but today the Heat came out on top, so I'm excited about that."

The Sacramento Kings are seriously considering the possibility of applying to the NBA by the league's March 1 deadline for relocation to Anaheim for next season, according to sources with knowledge of the team's thinking.
The Kings haven't made a final decision, but sources said team officials have been in Orange County, Calif., this month to gather more first-hand data on the feasibility and potential obstacles involved in trying to move to Anaheim's Honda Center at season's end after a 26-season run in Sacramento and numerous failed attempts to secure the financing needed for the construction of a new modern arena.
NBA commissioner David Stern publicly confirmed for the first time Saturday night at his annual All-Star Weekend news conference that the Kings have had discussions with Anaheim officials about a possible move.
In a subsequent phone interview with ESPN.com, Kings co-owner Joe Maloof declined to discuss specifics but said: "We have to look at all of our options at this point. But we also want to concentrate on our team right now. Any of the arena stuff, we'll talk about that later."
Maloof also reiterated comments he's made to the Sacramento Bee newspaper about the Kings being approached by "many cities" besides Anaheim.
But sources close to the situation say, with no NBA-ready arena for the Kings to move into in the Maloofs' home base of Las Vegas, that Anaheim holds the greatest appeal to the Kings.
The Kings have been trying for nearly a decade to replace outdated Arco Arena (soon to be renamed Power Balance Pavilion) with a new revenue-generating building that would ensure they stay in a market that was once known as the home of one of the NBA's most fervent fan bases. That was before Sacramento's slide down the Western Conference standings.
The Kings are 13-40 this season and it will be their fifth straight season out of the playoffs after a run that took them to the brink of the NBA Finals in an unforgettable seven-game series with the Los Angeles Lakers in 2002.
But Stern, at his news conference, confirmed the league no longer has an active role in trying to keep the team in Sacramento after originally backing the efforts of Sacramento mayor Kevin Johnson -- the former star guard with the Phoenix Suns -- to find a solution to the arena issue.
"All I'll say is that we and they have tried very hard over the years to see whether a new building could be built, and with the collapse of the last attempt -- which took a few years, and several million dollars, on behalf of the league -- I said we are not going to spend any more time on that," Stern said. "That is for the Maloofs and the people of Sacramento.
"I don't know where that is right now. I mean, I do know -- I talk to Mayor Johnson from time to time in relation to the various projects he's engaged. But I'm not driving it and we'll see how it goes."
Among the issues that could dissuade the Kings from making the relocation request before next season's deadline in 10 days are the millions still owed by the Maloofs to the city of Sacramento in loans and the behind-the-scenes resistance they could potentially receive from the Lakers and Los Angeles Clippers.
The Kings would likely need favorable loan and lease terms in Anaheim to mitigate those financial obligations and the franchise might still face opposition from the Lakers and Clippers. Although those teams would only have one vote each -- and despite the fact franchise relocations in the NBA only require a 15-14 majority vote for approval from the league's other 29 teams -- it's certainly conceivable the Staples Center co-tenants would band together to try to rally support from other teams to oppose to a third NBA franchise moving into a building that sits roughly 30 miles away.
Officials at the Honda Center, according to the Bee, declined comment Friday when asked if they are in negotiations with the Kings.
The NBA's Board of Governors has the right to attach a relocation fee to any franchise move it approves, but such fees are distributed evenly among the league's other teams and wouldn't be paid directly to the Lakers and Clippers in the event of the Kings moving to Anaheim.
One league source, furthermore, reiterated that such relocation fees are "discretionary."
March 1, meanwhile, is not only the NBA's deadline for relocation applications for the 2011-12 season but also the day that Arco Arena's name officially changes to Power Balance Pavilion.
Yet it's believed that the naming-rights deal with Anaheim-based Power Balance is one of the least lucrative in league history because of the age of the building -- which opened in 1988 -- and the franchise's uncertain status in town.
The Kings and the Atlanta Hawks have each moved three times, more than any other NBA franchise. After originating as the Rochester Royals and moving to Cincinnati, the franchise became the Kansas City-Omaha Kings and then the Kansas City Kings before relocating to Sacramento.
Sacramento radio station KFBK (1530 AM) reported in January that Henry Samueli, owner of the NHL's Anaheim Ducks, has offered to loan $100 million to Joe and Gavin Maloof to pay off the requisite debts and fees to move the Kings into the Samueli-owned Honda Center.
Senior writer Marc Stein covers the NBA for ESPN.com.

Two cities and three franchises accounted for six of the 10 players voted starters for the 2012 NBA All-Star Game, announced Thursday.
Dwyane Wade  and LeBron James of the Miami Heat were voted Eastern Conference starters for the Feb. 26 game at Amway Center in Orlando.
The Lakers' Kobe Bryant and Andrew Bynum and the Clippers' Chris Paul and Blake Griffin were voted starters in the West.
Defending NBA MVP Derrick Rose of the Chicago Bulls was voted a starting guard along with Wade in the East, with the Knicks' Carmelo Anthony joining James at forward and Dwight Howard of the Orlando Magic at center.
The starters were chosen by fan balloting. Howard was the leading vote-getter with 1.6 million votes.
Kevin Durant of the Oklahoma City Thunder was the lone West starter from outside the Los Angeles city limits. He'll start along with Griffin at forward, with Bryant and Paul at guard and Bynum at center.
Griffin and Bynum are first-time starters, while Bryant earned his record-tying 14th consecutive selection.
"I know a lot of guys deserve it and I appreciate the fans voting me in," Griffin said after the Clippers' loss to the Denver Nuggets Thursday night. "I have to do a lot of work to get to where I want to be. It should be a fun game. That's what those games are about, having fun and getting a break and putting on a show out there."
Bynum grabbed the starting center spot that for years went to Yao Ming, who retired last summer. Griffin was chosen as a reserve forward last year, when he became the first rookie All-Star since Yao in 2003.
"For me, it feels good because at least this year I'm putting up the kind of numbers that qualify me for it and it's great because the fans voted me in," Bynum said Thursday in Los Angeles.
It's the first time since 1997, when Houston had Hakeem Olajuwon and Charles Barkley, and Seattle sent Gary Payton and Shawn Kemp, that two pairs of teammates have been voted to start for one conference.
"It will be Lob City in Orlando," the Clippers' DeAndre Jordan said of Griffin and Paul playing in the game. "I can't wait for the game so I can watch them go out there and do work."
Bryant joins O'Neal, Jerry West and Karl Malone with his 14th straight starting nod. He earned his fourth All-Star MVP award last year, equaling Bob Pettit's NBA record.
"It means a lot," Rose said of the honor before the start of the Bulls' game at the Knicks. "Just wanting to be in the game is something you should take to heart. I take to heart."
"It's definitely fun," Rose said of playing with the league's other stars. "You learn more leadership skills. Especially playing on a team like that where every one of them are different type of leaders. And me being a young player, that's something I can take from there and add it to this team."
While he's happy to be a starter, Bynum remains in awe of his teammate Bryant's 14 All-Star appearances.
"It's unbelievable. It's ridiculous. But, obviously, he's the best player in the game. He's going to make it every year," Bynum said.
The starters were announced on TNT. The reserves will be chosen by voting of the coaches from each conference and will be announced next Thursday.
Dave McMenamin and Arash Markazi of ESPNLosAngeles.com, Nick Friedell of ESPNChicago.com and The Associated Press contributed to this report.

ORLANDO, Fla. --  Kyrie Irving kicked off the aerial display with an alley-oop to Paul George. Cleveland's rookie point guard then showed off his long-range shooting skills.
It was so much fun that Irving wasn't too upset that all those 3-pointers came in a meaningless game.
Irving was a perfect 8 for 8 from beyond the arc and finished with 34 points, helping Team Chuck beat Team Shaq 146-133 in the Rising Stars Challenge on Friday.
Indiana's George added 23 points but the night belonged to Irving, who picked up where another No. 1 overall pick left off in the NBA's showcase game for its first- and second-year players. Wizards point guard John Wall earned MVP honors last season when he was a rookie.
Irving said he couldn't remember being so hot from the field.
"No, it's never occurred in my career," he said. "You know, it's kind of unfortunate that it comes in the All-Star game. These stats don't carry over into the season. But at the end of the day, it was still fun to get out there with those talented guys. So it was a great experience."
Cleveland's Tristan Thompson scored 20 points to lead Team Shaq. New York Knicks sensation Jeremy Lin only had two points.
This year's Rising Stars Challenge had a different format, with the rookie and second-year players mixed together on teams for the first time. The league also inserted a little more name recognition with former stars Shaquille O'Neal and Charles Barkley serving as general managers and drafting the teams.
While the teams had a different look, there was once again no real defensive effort and plenty of fan-pleasing fast breaks and flashy play.
"It's what All-Star games are, there's not a lot of defense," Team Chuck co-head coach Maurice Cheeks said.
Lin had a relatively quiet night. His biggest highlight came early in the second half when he took a pass from Minnesota star Ricky Rubio and drove it underneath for a reverse layup.
He played just nine minutes before heading to the bench in the second half, and instead mostly yielded to the more high-flying players on his team. He took just four shots.
Landry Fields, who plays with Lin on the Knicks, remained his biggest fan, holding a "Linsanity" Time magazine cover featuring him.
"It was fun to be out there with all these guys, and this guy right here (pointing to magazine) did his thing," Fields said. "Short minutes, but he still did his thing."
Irving got the game off to a rousing start with the pass to George, and Rubio turned routine passes to his Shaq teammates into behind-the-back and between-the-leg looks.
It was part of an acrobatic early tone that was fast-paced and allowed the next generation of stars to showcase open-court and aerial skills that have already made many of them fan favorites on their respective teams.
Los Angeles Clippers forward Blake Griffin had several highlights while playing for Team Shaq, catching several alley-oops and even throwing his own pass off the glass and catching it for a dunk.
"There were a lot of dunks," Team Shaq co-head coach Ron Adams said. "I think the guys had fun. I hope we didn't set a Guinness Book of World Records record for dunks given, but it was a fun game. Interesting game."

ORLANDO, Fla. --  His nickname is the Human Pogo Stick and Utah's Jeremy Evans set out to put some bounce back into the Slam Dunk Contest.
Evans endeared himself to the fans with a mix of props and creativity, and they voted him the winner of one of the marquee events of the NBA's All-Star Saturday festivities.
Evans, who got into the competition as a replacement for injured New York guard Iman Shumpert, earned 29 percent of the 3 million votes cast. He beat out Houston's Chase Budinger, Indiana's Paul George and Minnesota's Derrick Williams for the Jazz's first-ever trophy in the contest.
In a departure from past dunk competitions, fans were given complete voting power and cast their ballots by text message after each of the four participants competed in three one-dunk rounds.
Evans dunked with a camera on his head, slammed two basketballs while jumping over a seated assistant and donned a Karl Malone jersey to dunk over mailman-dressed comedian Kevin Hart.
Evans said the Jazz didn't have any input in the Malone-themed idea.
"Not at all," he said. "I was just thanking the Jazz fans. You want to do something to get them in it. So I felt that was a good way. And Dwight Howard, he helped me big time. That was huge."
Budinger got just as many cheers from the Amway Center fans as Evans, and some in the celebrity-filled crowd sighed when the winner was announced.
Budinger got his biggest reaction when he donned a Cedric Ceballos jersey and imitated his 1992 blindfolded dunk, completing it with a reverse slam.
"I've very happy with my performance. I went out there, I had a plan and I executed the plan and the fans voted and I didn't win and that happens sometimes," Budinger said. "But I had great dunks and they're going to be great memories as well."
Kevin Love knows something about dunking. He does most of his dirty work inside for Minnesota, but he got to show off his outside touch on Saturday night.
Love beat out Oklahoma City star Kevin Durant to win the 3-Point Shootout. The former UCLA star was consistent throughout, but had to survive a tiebreaker in the first round and sweat out the last few shots from Durant to pull out the 17-14 victory in the final.
Love is in the middle of a breakout year for Minnesota, averaging 25 points and 9.9 rebounds a game. But he also has connected on 49 of 141 3-point attempts for the Timberwolves.
"You know, I'm a guy that loves to rebound the ball, a guy that loves to play inside, really a physical player," Love said. "But for me, coming into the league, I was told not to shoot 3-point shots, so to be where I am now and continue to work on my game; I think this definitely speaks to my versatility. I think I'll just continue to improve year in and year out."
Celebrities lined the court for the appetizer before Sunday's NBA All-Star Game, and the first event saw the continuation of the good vibes that New York Knicks sensation Jeremy Lin has brought to the Big Apple recently.
With Knicks super fan Spike Lee looking on, Team New York had the touch from the outside and won the Shooting Stars event. Former Knicks star Allan Houston nailed his third attempt at a half-court shot to give his team consisting of current Knicks guard Landry Fields and Cappie Pondexter of the WNBA's New York Liberty the victory.
San Antonio point guard Tony Parker then won the Skills Competition. Parker was the only one of six participants to break 30 seconds in the first round (29.2) and his time of 32.8 in the final run on the obstacle course was better than Boston's Rajon Rondo (34.6) and New Jersey's Deron Williams (41.4).
Love was tied for third after the opening round of the Shootout and beat Miami's Mario Chalmers 5-4 in a tiebreaker. Defending champion James Jones led all shooters in the opening round with 22 and Durant was next with 20.
Orlando's Ryan Anderson just missed eliminating both Love and Chalmers, totaling 17 after missing his final 2-point money ball.
Love and Durant both had 16 in Round 2 to advance to the finals, with Jones posting 12.
Houston, Fields and Pondexter completed the shooting course in 37.3 seconds in the final round. It was better than the 47.6 posted by the Team Texas trio of former Houston Rockets star and TNT analyst Kenny Smith, current Rocket Chandler Parsons and Sophia Young of the San Antonio Silver Stars.
Team Orlando and Atlanta posted the slowest times of Round 1 and were eliminated.
The speedy Parker put together an impressive display on the skills obstacle course, which involves participants moving through a dribbling circuit, successfully throwing chest passes through a hanging tire and driving for a layup.
Williams, the 2008 winner, holds the record for the skills' course at 25 seconds, but had trouble completing a pass in the final round Saturday.


ORLANDO, Fla. -- Officially, Sunday night for Kobe Bryant will forever be remembered as the one in which he passed Michael Jordan to become the NBA's career leading scorer in All-Star Game history.
Unofficially, what Bryant accomplished in the final stages of the West's 152-149 victory to hold off a ferocious rally from the East on Sunday at the Amway Center could have a greater impact than any of the 27 points he scored to bring his All-Star total to 271.
Every bit as meaningful as the points he scored was the point he made.
This isn't about the NBA icon Kobe replaced. Instead, the focus ended up being more on the late-game exchange he had with another preeminent superstar by whom he's being chased. Kobe spent the final seconds of Sunday's game playfully yet pointedly chastising LeBron James for passing -- not once, but twice -- instead of taking a shot that could have tied the game or sent it into overtime.
The second of LeBron's two passes -- a poorly thrown skip pass -- was picked off by Blake Griffin with the East trailing 152-149 and just 1.9 seconds left in the game. As Griffin was being fouled after the steal, an animated Bryant walked over to LeBron and pleaded with him to shoot the ball in that situation.
What may have made LeBron's preference to pass so puzzling to Kobe was that he had already tied an All-Star Game record by making six 3-pointers.
"Yeah, he was telling me to shoot it," LeBron said afterward, still sounding dejected from a late-game breakdown that soured a performance in which he had 36 points, seven assists and six rebounds to nearly lead the East back from a 21-point second-half deficit. "I [saw] my teammate open for a split-second. When I tried to throw it late, that's what usually happens and it results in a turnover. Definitely, I wish I could have that one back."
Regret. There is that dreadful place LeBron too often seems to lock himself into when he comes up short under the brightest lights and on the biggest stages. Yes, the All-Star Game is a meaningless exhibition that counts for absolutely nothing in the standings. And yes, LeBron's record-breaking efficiency and overall play through 34 games this season as the likely MVP frontrunner with the Miami Heat won't be undone by the final nine seconds he played Sunday night.
But there's no denying that this was another one of those episode. We all know the ones. They get replayed when LeBron wants too desperately to be a facilitator when he should be a determined finisher and attack the same way late in close games as he does most of the night leading to that point.
You know these are strange and irritating tendencies when even Kobe, who wants nothing more than a shot to knock LeBron and the Heat out should they ever meet in the NBA Finals, is the one so publicly trying to prop him up in moments like this. What we didn't know at the time of Kobe's on-court talk with LeBron was that he was still feeling the effects of a blow he had taken to the head earlier in the game from Dwyane Wade on a drive to the basket.
Ironically, it was the blow that sent Kobe, with blood dripping from his nose, to the free-throw line for the two points that pulled him into a tie with Jordan for the All-Star scoring record. Kobe finished the game and delivered his message to James, but did not speak with the media afterward because he was being evaluated for headaches following the game (a CT scan revealed a broken nose.)
So the last words we saw from Kobe were the ones to LeBron. It's strange how this Jordan-Kobe-LeBron triangle works. Despite the five championship rings, All-Star and season MVPs and the general consensus that Kobe is the best shooting guard of his generation, critics constantly remind him that he'll never be Jordan. And despite two MVP awards, scoring titles and recognition as the league's best overall player today, LeBron's critics insist he'll always lack Kobe's so-called clutch gene.
So perhaps Kobe's comments to LeBron were the products of both support and sympathy. On a night when Kobe took another step in padding his own legacy, he left the court trying to help address a contemporary on a perceived weakness.
This was atypical Kobe. He normally spends his nights trying to crush his opponent. Not correct him. Just count it among Kobe's many contributions to the game.
"Tonight, he does what he normally does," Wade said of Bryant. "He got 27. He's Kobe Bryant. He scores the ball. He's a tough cover. But it's great being a little piece of history. He's one of the best of all time. We will one day say we had the honor of playing against one of the greatest players to ever play the game of basketball."
Wade also suggested that Kobe might not have the All-Star scoring record for long considering how Kevin Durant, the MVP of Sunday's game, led the West with 36 points to bring his total to 85 in just three All-Star appearances. LeBron has scored 207 career points in the league's mid-season showcase game and will also soon be closing in on Kobe.
But there's no one in the league quite like Kobe as a closer. And he showed no signs of pain when he was ragging LeBron on one of the very few problems in his game.
"That's the type of guy he is," West coach Scott Brooks said. "He's not going to let anybody know that he was in pain or had any issues. The guy is as competitive as I've seen. He was going to give everything and not let us know. That's what makes him the special player that he is."
Kobe was special enough to catch Jordan in the third quarter Sunday.
And spirited enough to plead with LeBron to stop passing in the fourth.

NEW YORK --  San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich will coach the Western Conference All-Stars for the third time in his career.
Popovich earned the spot after San Antonio beat Charlotte 102-78 on Wednesday, ensuring the Spurs (37-11, .771) will have the best record in the West through games played Sunday.
The Oklahoma City Thunder's Scott Brooks was not eligible to coach in this year's midseason classic by virtue of having coached the West team in last year's game.
Popovich, in his 17th season as San Antonio's head coach, has led the Spurs to four NBA championships. He coached the West All-Stars in 2005 and 2011.
The All-Star Game will be played at the Toyota Center in Houston on Feb. 17.

The Houston Rockets and Portland Trail Blazers each had two players picked Thursday as reserves for the NBA All-Star Game, while the Indiana Pacers had to settle for one despite owning the league's best record.
Dwight Howard, who was passed late in fan voting for a starting spot, was chosen along with Houston teammate James Harden.
LaMarcus Aldridge and Damian Lillard made it for the Trail Blazers, who have been among the Western Conference leaders all season.
From Indiana, Roy Hibbert joined Paul George, who was voted to start. The Pacers had hoped Lance Stephenson, who leads the NBA in triple-doubles, also would be selected.
Howard was voted into his eighth straight All-Star Game, highlighting his first season with the Rockets in which he has helped place them firmly in the playoff hunt.
Averaging 18.1 points and 12.5 rebounds per game -- just a shade less than his career averages of 18.3 and 12.9 -- Howard extended a streak that dates to his third season in the league.
Lillard, the reigning rookie of the year, made the team for his first All-Star selection.
The All-Star reserves, selected through a vote by their respective conferences' coaches, were announced Thursday on TNT for the Feb. 16 game in New Orleans. The coaches were not allowed to vote for their own players.
Starters were revealed last week.
The East reserves were highlighted by Chris Bosh of the Miami Heat, who has made nine consecutive All-Star teams.
Joe Johnson was named to his seventh All-Star team, his first with the Brooklyn Nets.
Roy Hibbert and Joakim Noah made their second All-Star squads, with DeMar DeRozan making his first appearance in his fifth season.
"I'm just happy," said Noah, the Bulls center. "I'm honored to be selected to play in the All-Star Game, play against the best players in the world. It's very humbling. I'm happy the hard work is paying off. Even though it's not my priority, it's still a pretty good achievement. I'm proud of it."
John Wall of the Washington Wizards and the Atlanta Hawks' Paul Millsap also were named to the East squad.
"I am very proud to represent the Wizards franchise and the city of Washington as an All-Star and to share this honor with the fans who have supported me and stuck by me since I arrived here," said Wall, the No. 1 pick in the 2010 draft.
Chris Paul of the Los Angeles Clippers, Tony Parker of the San Antonio Spurs and Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks rounded out the West reserves.
Nowitzki earned his 12th selection, tying him for sixth all-time with nine players.
"I have been a part of All-Star weekend every year since I have been in the league and not being there last year felt strange," Nowitzki said in a statement. "The Dallas fan base has always been great to me and the Mavericks' organization and the city deserves to be represented at the All-Star Game."
The West coaches went for veterans with their choices at guard in Paul, last year's All-Star Game MVP, and the Spurs' Parker. That left first-time hopefuls Goran Dragic of Phoenix and Mike Conley Jr. of Memphis home.
Paul says he hopes to play but it's too early to know whether he'll be healthy enough to return.
Paul played his first six seasons in New Orleans. He has been out since separating his right shoulder in a win against Dallas on Jan. 3 and is expected to return sometime around the All-Star break.
Clippers coach Doc Rivers said Thursday night he has no problem if Paul's first game back is the All-Star Game.
Among the other players who didn't make it were Clippers center DeAndre Jordan, whom Rivers had lobbied for in the days preceding the vote by calling his fellow coaches.
The starters were announced last week, with Miami's LeBron James and Dwyane Wade, New York's Carmelo Anthony and Cleveland's Kyrie Irving voted to start along with George.
The fans also voted in NBA scoring leader Kevin Durant of Oklahoma City, the Lakers' Kobe Bryant, Golden State's Stephen Curry, Minnesota's Kevin Love and the Clippers' Blake Griffin.
Bryant is injured and not expected to play.
Adam Silver, who will become commissioner Saturday, will choose replacements for Bryant and any other injured players.
Indiana's Frank Vogel and Oklahoma City's Scott Brooks will coach the game. Brooks would determine who replaces Bryant in the starting lineup.
Information from The Associated Press and ESPNChicago.com's Jon Greenberg was used in this report.

NEW ORLEANS -- Kyrie Irving validated the fan vote and offered a glimpse of how good he can be when surrounded by first-rate players.
The Cleveland Cavaliers' point guard was selected MVP of the NBA All-Star Game Sunday night after scoring 31 points, racking up 14 assists and playing with the energy required to rally the Eastern Conference from an 18-point deficit in the second half of its 163-155 victory over the West.
"It was definitely special, just being out there with all these great athletes," Irving said. "There's so many different MVPs out there on that floor, and to be named MVP amongst all those great stars is truly an honor."
Irving missed only three of the 17 shots he attempted, and all of those were from 3-point range, where he was 3-for-6.
He was at his best in the second half, hitting 11 of 13 shots and dishing out seven assists. Often refusing to settle for long jumpers unless they came in rhythm, he went hard to the basket and finished, showing the competitive spirit often lacking in All-Star exhibitions.
"I feel like that's what all the fans want to see us do is just compete at the highest level," Irving said. "I just wanted to give the fans what they wanted."
Eastern Conference coach Frank Vogel of the Indiana Pacers said Irving's performance was a reminder that while winning is important, players should be judged by more than just the records of the teams for which they play.
The Cavaliers are 20-33 at the All-Star break, 11th in the Eastern Conference. Still, Irving was elected by fans to start for the East alongside perennial All-Stars LeBron James, Carmelo Anthony and Dwyane Wade.
"The history of the league is to reward the teams with winning records and the best players on those teams" with All-Star selections, Vogel said. "But there's certain players that stand out beyond that, and Kyrie is definitely one of them. ... He's one of the best in the world, and he showed it tonight."
Not bad for a 21-year-old in his third NBA season -- even if he was the first overall pick in 2011.
When Irving was given the trophy, he got a little advice from James, who also was playing for the Cavs at age 21 when he won his first All-Star MVP award in 2006. James and several others reminded Irving to hold the trophy high above his head, so fans could see it.
Cleveland rooters watching on TV might have enjoyed that the most, offering hope that all the losing that has followed James' departure for Miami may end sooner rather than later -- if Irving can get a little more help.
"It's a great accomplishment, bringing this (trophy) back to Cleveland," Irving said. "That's the most important thing."

The Warriors' Stephen Curry has dethroned The King.
Curry made a late surge to pass LeBron James as the overall leading vote-getter for the NBA All-Star Game, the league announced Thursday.
Charles Barkley has a problem with Carmelo Anthony as an All-Star starter, writes Ian Begley.
Blake Griffin will play in his fifth straight All-Star Game, but teammate Chris Paul's path to New York isn't that clear, Arash Markazi writes.
"This means a lot; it's something that I don't take for granted," Curry said in a statement. "To have support of fans not only in the Bay Area but across the nation and across the world, supporting not only myself but our team, it means a lot. I want to represent the Warriors the best way I know how, every single game, and will do that proudly in New York thanks to the fans and their votes. Something that's definitely a dream come true, and to be two times in a row, I'm proud of that."
The star of the NBA-leading Warriors, Curry ended up with more than 1.5 million votes, more than 42,000 ahead of James, who had a 13,285-vote lead over the sharpshooter at the previous update. James was the leading vote-getter last year, preceded by Kobe Bryant in 2013. Curry, who just two years ago was an All-Star snub, becomes the first Warriors player elected to consecutive starts since Chris Mullin in 1991-92.
To his credit, James didn't seem too bothered about being unseated by Curry as the top vote-getter.
"It doesn't [get old] when it comes from the fans," James said Friday. "The fans, they create us, they help us, they love and cry and smile when we do things great, when we do things bad and all of that. So the least we can do is give them an opportunity to feel like they're huge part of our game by giving them the votes. So it's great to know that my fans have put me in the game."
Pau and Marc Gasol were voted in to become the first brothers to start in the All-Star Game, while Toronto's Kyle Lowry made a late surge in fan balloting and will start for the Eastern Conference.
Lowry passed Dwyane Wade and will start alongside Washington's John Wall, the first time the East has had two first-time starters at guard since 2000. Wade's streak of nine straight games as a starter ended.
Bryant was voted to start at West guard, although that's in jeopardy because of a torn right rotator cuff.
Pau Gasol of Chicago will start up front for the East along with James and Carmelo Anthony for the Feb. 15 game at Madison Square Garden in New York. Memphis' Marc Gasol joins New Orleans' Anthony Davis and the Clippers' Blake Griffin in the West frontcourt.
Kobe Bryant was selected to start in the 2015 NBA All-Star Game, but perhaps fans got it wrong and should have voted for the Rockets' James Harden, who leads the NBA in points per game this season.
"For me to be the face of New York, representing New York during All-Star Weekend is a special moment you really can't put into words," Anthony said, according to the team's website.
Tom and Dick Van Arsdale played in the 1970 and 1971 games, but the Gasols -- once traded for each other -- are the first brothers chosen to start.
The last time both squads featured a player born outside the 50 states in the starting lineup was the 2002 All-Star Game. Dikembe Mutombo (Congo) started in the East, and Tim Duncan (U.S. Virgin Islands) started in the West.
"Knowing that I will be facing my brother Pau for the opening tip, it will be a true accomplishment for our family and a memory I will cherish for the rest of my career," Marc Gasol said in a statement through the Grizzlies. "It holds special meaning to be voted in by the fans, and I look forward to representing my teammates, the organization, the city of Memphis and entire Mid-South community and Grizzlies fans across the world."
Pau Gasol described his selection as "incredibly special."
"It's overwhelming. It's a huge honor. It's just beyond our selves, individuals, so it's a very exciting moment," he said. "Unforgettable, memorable, historical, you name it. You can use as many words and adjectives as you want. So right now we're very thrilled, we're overwhelmed, and we're happy and thankful to everyone that supports us, the fans that have voted for us. Our teams, our organizations -- so it's just a beautiful moment to live and go through as an NBA player."
Both Gasols were among the leaders in all the balloting updates, but Lowry was running more than 100,000 votes behind Wade, a perennial All-Star and a fan favorite, when the previous results were released. Fans rewarded Lowry for his hard-nosed play in guiding the Raptors to a huge lead in the Atlantic Division with his first All-Star appearance.
Wall earned his first last year, and now he has earned his first start. The East hasn't had both its guards making their first starts since Philadelphia's Allen Iverson and Charlotte's Eddie Jones in 2000.
Fans had to vote for two guards and three frontcourt players. The reserves will be picked by the head coaches in each conference and will be announced next Thursday.
Curry's partner in the backcourt is up in the air after the Lakers revealed Bryant's injury earlier Thursday. Although the severity of the injury is unknown, many rotator cuff injuries require surgery and several months of rehabilitation.
That could rule Bryant out of his 17th All-Star appearance, second all-time behind Kareem Abdul-Jabbar's 19. Bryant's first was in 1998 at Madison Square Garden, site of this year's game.
Commissioner Adam Silver would name an injury replacement if needed, and coaches Steve Kerr (Golden State) of the West and Mike Budenholzer (Atlanta) of the East would determine who replaces an injured player in the lineup.
The NBA changed the ballot this year to include all active players, rather than just 60 per conference. The results included five first-time starters and 10 starters from 10 teams.
And the fans left out some of the usual faces such as Wade, Miami teammate Chris Bosh, Oklahoma City's Kevin Durant and the Clippers' Chris Paul.
James said he hopes some of his Cavs teammates join him on the East roster.
"I think [Kyrie Irving] and [Kevin Love are] All-Stars," James said. "Their body of work is proven. What they've done for this team and for this league has been proven as well. So, I would expect those guys to be in it."
They gave Pau Gasol his fifth All-Star selection and first in the East for his contributions to the Bulls in his first season since leaving the Lakers.
"I know the last couple of years he battled through some things. But I could see this summer how highly motivated he was," Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau said before the announcement was made. "I think that was important for him. He came into camp in great shape, hit the ground running. He really hasn't stopped since. He's been terrific."
Information from ESPN.com's Nick Friedell, Dave McMenamin and The Associated Press was used in this report.

Sacramento Kings center DeMarcus Cousins will replace injured Los Angeles Lakers star Kobe Bryant at the 2015 NBA All-Star Game, commissioner Adam Silver announced Friday.
"Kobe's a legend, we all know that," Cousins said before the Kings' game against the Cleveland Cavaliers on Friday. "Filling his shoes in the All-Star Game, it speaks a lot. So, I'm honored."
Cousins, who said he did not watch the TNT telecast Thursday night announcing the All-Star reserves, said he had resigned to the fact that he wasn't going to make the team, going as far as texting Portland Trail Blazers guard Damian Lillard and suggesting he should be Bryant's injury replacement. He was told he made the team Friday afternoon in a phone call from Kings general manager Pete D'Alessandro.
Once known as talented but volatile, DeMarcus Cousins has taken a leap forward on the court and ranks among the best in the league.
"Honestly, I really didn't expect myself to make it," Cousins said. "I mean, the West was so tough this year and there are so many talented guys in the West. But the crazy thing is, me and Dame were texting after the results came out and I was telling him, 'Man, you know you're going to make this team, like, it's nothing.' It's just kind of crazy how things worked out."
It is the first All-Star appearance for Cousins, who ranks fifth in the NBA in scoring (23.8 points per game) and third in rebounding (12.3 rebounds per game).
As the league noted in a release, over the last 20 years, only five players -- David Robinson, Shaquille O'Neal, Kevin Garnett, Tim Duncan and Kevin Love -- have averaged at least 23 points and 12 rebounds in a season.
Cousins is the Kings' first All-Star since 2004 and he replaces Bryant, who was voted in as a Western Conference All-Star starter for a record 17th consecutive year. The 36-year old Bryant suffered a season-ending shoulder injury last week in a loss to New Orleans, his third consecutive season-ending injury.
Cousins and Lillard were considered perhaps the two players most deserving of a spot on the Western Conference roster, but while Cousins got his invite Friday, Lillard is still on the outside looking in.
Lillard took to Instagram and in a since-removed post thanked those who didn't vote him on the roster for giving him further inspiration in the future.
"I just want to thank the coaches who feel I wasn't good enough, the fans that didn't think I was good enough, and Adam Silver also for not thinking I was good enough," Lillard said in the post that accompanied an image that read "Be So Good They Can't Ignore You." "This isn't unfamiliar territory for me , it's actually what my life has been inspired by. I'd be lying if I said I wasn't disappointed or that I don't feel disrespected but it's not too much to handle. Not the first or last guy to be snubbed. "You should have been there" isn't good enough for me. But anyway, The reason I'm in these shoes is because I've always use the hand I was dealt to my advantage... A wise man once told me... " it ain't always gone be peaches and cream but somebody has to pay for the reason it's not ... One way or another " ... #ImThankful #Real #NonAllStar #RipCity #YellowTape"
Cousins said that despite his disappointment for Lillard's exclusion, it couldn't temper his enthusiasm for his own All-Star inclusion.
"This whole process has been crazy ... It's a happy day for me," Cousins said.

The stars are out in New York City for the 64th NBA All-Star Game. We've got the weekend covered. ASG Index 
"The first person I called was my mother. She was screaming on the phone. You know how mothers do."
While Cousins replaces Bryant on the roster, it remains up to Western Conference coach Steve Kerr to determine who will replace Bryant in the starting lineup.
The 64th NBA All-Star Game is Sunday, Feb. 15, at Madison Square Garden.
Information from ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin was used in this report.

After initially planning to start Kevin Durant in place of the injured Anthony Davis in Sunday's All-Star Game, Western Conference coach Steve Kerr called an audible Saturday afternoon and decided to make LaMarcus Aldridge his fifth starter.
Aldridge, a Portland Trail Blazers forward, is taking the place of Davis in the starting lineup because of a shoulder sprain that caused the New Orleans Pelicans star to miss his team's last two games before the All-Star break.
Kerr had initially chosen to start Durant, the Oklahoma City Thunder star, in Davis' place before changing his mind. Durant had said Saturday he expected to start Sunday, but also said he wouldn't play much due to nagging injuries.
Durant was voted in as a reserve by Western Conference coaches despite missing 27 of Oklahoma City's first 53 games due to injury. Durant, the reigning MVP, missed the start of this season while recovering from a fractured right foot. In 26 games since returning to action, he's averaging 25.9 points, 6.6 rebounds and 4.0 assists.
Davis hurt his shoulder in a Feb. 7 loss at the Chicago Bulls when he lost his grip on the rim while completing an alley-oop dunk, falling about 7 feet horizontally to the hardwood.
"I just want to get back to 100 percent so I can get back on the floor with my team," Davis said Thursday during a conference call with New Orleans-based reporters.
Davis still plans to spend this weekend in New York, making appearances and watching from the sideline as his peers participate in basketball events.
"Without playing, it's still a good experience," Davis said, adding that he can learn plenty from simply spending time with elite players. "So I'm going to take full advantage of it."
Now in his third NBA season out of Kentucky and only 21 years old, Davis has averaged 24.5 points, 10.3 rebounds and 2.7 blocks per game this season, leading the Pelicans in all three categories.
Aldridge is the third substitute starter that Kerr has had to pick for an injured player. Aldridge is averaging 23.6 points and 10.3 rebounds in 47 games this season.
Earlier this week Kerr chose James Harden and Klay Thompson to start in place of the injured Kobe Bryant and Blake Griffin.
Information from The Associated Press contributed to this report.

NEW YORK -- Stephen Curry honored a fallen fan the best way he knew how.
A great dunk will always be special, but 3-point contest winner Stephen Curry shows just how far the game has evolved, Ethan Sherwood Strauss writes.
Sure, LeBron James owns the NBA right now, but the future looks like it could be in Steph Curry's hands, writes Brian Windhorst.
Stephen Curry made 13 straight shots at one point, earning highest marks in the 3-point contest, Tom Haberstroh writes.
Curry bested Golden State Warriors teammate Klay Thompson and six others to win his first 3-point contest during a memorable All-Star Saturday night.
Curry paid homage to one of the three victims of the shooting in North Carolina earlier this week by writing Deah Shaddy Barakat's name on his sneakers.
He wore the shoes again during the Shooting Stars competition earlier Saturday night.
Barakat was one of three Muslim college students killed Tuesday in Curry's home state.
"It only seemed right to honor him and his family, and hopefully they know that people are thinking about them," Curry said. "They're not alone, and hopefully it can give them some kind of peace and comfort knowing that he was a special guy. And I just did my little part to shed light toward him."
Curry said there were several connections to the family that touched him.
He said Barakat did his wedding photo similar to a magazine cover featuring Curry and his wife, Ayesha. Barakat also wore a No. 30 jersey -- Curry's number -- in basketball leagues and some of Curry's family members even played pickup games with Barakat in North Carolina.
"They all spoke highly of him," Curry said. "It's a great platform to be on, but it only seemed right."
Barakat's wife, Yusor Mohammad Abu-Salha, and her sister, Razan Mohammad Abu-Salha, also were killed in the attack. Craig Stephen Hicks, 46, has been charged with three counts of first-degree murder in their deaths.
Curry, the starting point guard for the Western Conference in Sunday's All-Star Game at Madison Square Garden, made sure he'd have the chance to shine a bright light on Barakat and his family.
He scored 27 points in the final round. Curry connected on 13 consecutive shots until missing his final attempt, bringing fans and celebrities roaring to their feet after every swish at Brooklyn's Barclays Center.
Stephen Curry's 13 straight 3-pointers in the finals of Saturday night's long-range contest were the second most made consecutively in event history.
Thompson, who had an opening-round best of 24, scored only 14 points in the final round. Cleveland's Kyrie Irving finished second with 17 points in the three-man final.
It was a rare year when the 3-point competition had as much -- if not more -- intrigue heading into it than the dunk contest because of the notable names who were -- and weren't -- participating in each.
Curry, who set the NBA record with 272 3-pointers in a season two years ago, finally took home the 3-point crown on his fourth try. He earned bragging rights over his fellow "Splash Brothers" star in the process, putting pressure on Thompson to follow his spotlight-stealing final round.
He couldn't.
Nobody could.
Atlanta's Kyle Korver, who is shooting a league-high 52.3 percent from beyond the arc, and defending champion Marco Belinelli of San Antonio never made it past the first round with scores of 18. Portland's Wesley Matthews finished with 22, Los Angeles Clippers guard J.J. Redick scored 17 and Houston's James Harden had 15.

NEW YORK -- Stephen Curry honored a fallen fan the best way he knew how.
A great dunk will always be special, but 3-point contest winner Stephen Curry shows just how far the game has evolved, Ethan Sherwood Strauss writes.
Sure, LeBron James owns the NBA right now, but the future looks like it could be in Steph Curry's hands, writes Brian Windhorst.
Stephen Curry made 13 straight shots at one point, earning highest marks in the 3-point contest, Tom Haberstroh writes.

Russell Westbrook and Zach LaVine were two of the clear winners from All-Star Weekend, writes Jason Concepcion.
NEW YORK -- Russell Westbrook was the brightest All-Star in the Big Apple.
Westbrook scored 41 points -- one shy of Wilt Chamberlain's 53-year-old record -- and was selected MVP of the NBA All-Star Game on Sunday night after leading the West to a 163-158 win over the East at Madison Square Garden.
Oklahoma City's flashy point guard set a record with 27 first-half points and nearly topped Chamberlain's mark set in 1962. Westbrook didn't realize he was within reach of Chamberlain until it was too late and the West was trying to maintain its lead.
"I missed about six or seven layups," he said. "I could definitely have had it."
Westbrook is a showman, and he delivered a scintillating performance on basketball's biggest stage, pleasing a crowd that included president Bill Clinton, Jay Z, Beyonce and some of the game's all-time greats.
Russell Westbrook's 41 points in Sunday's All-Star Game mark the second-highest output in the game's history -- and a peg up on Michael Jordan.
Westbrook became the third player to score 40 points in an All-Star Game, joining Chamberlain and Michael Jordan, who had 40 in 1988.
"It's definitely an honor to be grouped with those two guys," he said.
In the first half, Westbrook helped the West build a 20-point lead that was eventually erased. And beyond his array of high-flying dunks -- he grazed his head on the bottom of the backboard on one slam -- drives and 3-pointers, Westbrook celebrated almost every one of his buckets, either strutting back down the floor, raising his arms or pointing to the crowd.
"It was a spectacular show of athleticism," Golden State guard Stephen Curry said.
Westbrook's biggest basket came with 2:21 left, when he drained a 3-pointer to give the West a 158-149 lead. He made the most of his 25 minutes on the floor, attempting 28 shots. When Chamberlain set his record, he played 37 minutes, shot 17-for-23 and had 24 rebounds.
With the West clinging to a three-point lead in the final seconds, Westbrook went to the free throw line for two shots. He made the first and then arched his second attempt high, trying to miss. It went in anyway.
"I guess I couldn't miss tonight, huh?" he said.
Not always given credit while playing alongside reigning league MVP Kevin Durant with the Thunder, Westbrook is regarded by his peers as one of the game's best backcourt generals. He's the third consecutive guard to win MVP honors, following Kyrie Irving and Chris Paul.
LeBron James also put in a strong bid for MVP, finishing with 30 points, seven assists and five rebounds to pace the East. The four-time NBA MVP had 22 points in the first half, going all-out in hopes of earning his third All-Star MVP honors.
Westbrook was just too good.
"He's unbelievable," said James, who shot 11-of-21 from the floor. "He's an unbelievable talent in our league. His motor, his athleticism, his demeanor, about how he approaches the game, it's all great. And it's great for our league. He showed that tonight, showcased it on a big stage."
At this point in his career, James didn't mind. The 30-year-old Cavaliers star said he was just as happy to create for others and share the spotlight as he was to score.
"You definitely enjoy it,'' James said. "I was one of those young guys at a time. I was seeing the older guys, and you try to make your mark. And now being in the reverse role, you just know that our league is in good hands."
Westbrook shot 5-of-6 in the first quarter and came out firing in the second. He knocked down three 3-pointers -- one longer than the last -- as the West opened a 56-36 lead. After each make, Westbrook, one of the league's best dressers, paraded around the floor like a runway model.
This was his show.
"I was definitely excited to come and enjoy my weekend in New York, especially with Fashion Week going as well," he said. "I'm happy we won."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

The 2002-03 NHL waiver draft will be held Friday, Oct. 4 at noon ET.


Waiver draft rules
1. In the first round, only non-playoff clubs from the 2001-02 season participate.
2. In the first round, no club may claim from a club in its own division.
3. No club may lose more than three players in the waiver draft, unless it chooses to offer more players. Each club's three-player loss limit will increase by the number of draft claims it makes against other clubs.
4. The draft will conclude when a round is completed in which no club makes a claim.
Exemptions
The number of years a player is exempt from the Waiver Draft is outlined below. The exemption ends once the player has played in the number of NHL games set forth in the applicable column below.
Goalies
        Years from    NHL Games
  Age   NHL signing    Played*
   18        6      or   80
   19        5      or   80
   20        4      or   80
   21        4      or   60
   22        4      or   60
   23        3      or   60
   24        2      or   60
   25+       1      or   --
Skaters
        Years from   NHL Games
  Age   NHL signing   Played*
   18       5       or   160
   19       4       or   160
   20       3       or   160
   21       3       or    80
   22       3       or    70
   23       3       or    60
   24       2       or    60
   25+      1       or    -
* 'NHL games played' includes all regular-season and playoff games. A skater who plays in 11 or more NHL games as a 18- or 19-year-old will have his exemption reduced from five and four years, respectively, to three years. A goaltender who plays in 11 or more NHL games as an 18- or 19-year-old will have his exemption reduced from six and five years, respectively, to four years.
Anaheim Mighty Ducks
Protected: Dan Bylsma, F; Keith Carney, D; Marc Chouinard, F; Matt Cullen, F; Niclas Havelid, D; Paul Kariya, F; Patric Kjellberg, F; Jason Krog, F; Mike Leclerc, F; Andy McDonald, F; Adam Oates, F; Fredrik Olausson, D; Steve Rucchin, F; Ruslan Salei, D; Kevin Sawyer, F; Petr Sykora, F; Pavel Trnka, D; Vitali Vishnevski, D; Martin Gerber, G; J-Sebastien Giguere, G.
Available: Francis Belanger, F; Travis Brigley, F; Josh DeWolf, D; Denny Lambert, F; Chris O'Sullivan, D; Samuel Pahlsson, F; Todd Reirden, D; Nick Smith, F; German Titov, F; Nikolai Tsulygin, D; Rob Valicevic, F; Jason York, D.
Atlanta Thrashers
Protected: Lubos Bartecko, F; Yuri Butsayev, F; Jeff Cowan, F; Tony Hrkac, F; Frantisek Kaberle, D; Tomi Kallio, F; Vyacheslav Kozlov, F; Uwe Krupp, D; Shawn McEachern, F; Jeff Odgers, F; Pascal Rheaume, F; Ben Simon, F; Richard Smehlik, D; Dan Snyder, F; Patrik Stefan, F; Andy Sutton, D; Chris Tamer, D; Yannick Tremblay, D; Frederic Cassivi, G; Milan Hnilicka, G.
Available: Dallas Eakins, D; Chris Herperger, F; Andreas Karlsson, F; Per Svartvadet, F; Jean-Pierre Vigier, F; Norm Maracle, G; Damian Rhodes, G.
Boston Bruins
Protected: P.J. Axelsson, F; Bryan Berard, D; Sean Brown, D; Hal Gill, D; Mike Knuble, F; Jarno Kultanen, D; Martin Lapointe, F; Marty McInnis, F; Kyle McLaren, D; Glen Murray, F; Sean O'Donnell, D; Brian Rolston, F; Sergei Samsonov, F; P.J. Stock, F; Jozef Stumpel, F; Don Sweeney, D; Joe Thornton, F; Rob Zamuner, F; John
Grahame, G; Steve Shields, G.
Available: Bill Bowler, F; Rich Brennan, D; Carl Corazzini, F; Michal Grosek, F; Jay Henderson, F; Matthew Herr, F; Chris Kelleher, D; Dimitri Kvartalnov, F; Brantt Myhres, F; Darren Van Oene, F; Tim Thomas, G.
Buffalo Sabres
Protected: Maxim Afinogenov, F; Stu Barnes, F; Eric Boulton, F; Curtis Brown, F; Tim Connolly, F; Jean-Pierre Dumont, F; Chris Gratton, F; Jochen Hecht, F; Jay McKee, D; Francois Methot, F; James Patrick, D; Peter Ratchuk, D; Rob Ray, F; Miroslav Satan, F; Vaclav Varada, F; Rhett Warrener, D; Jason Woolley, D; Alexei Zhitnik, D; Martin Biron, G; Mika Noronen, G.
Available: Jeremy Adduono, F; Jason Botterill, F; Rory Fitzpatrick, D; Denis Hamel, F; Doug Houda, D; Chris Taylor, F; Tom Askey, G.
Calgary Flames
Protected: Steve Begin, F; Craig Berube, F; Bob Boughner, D; Petr Buzek, D; Chris Clark, F; Craig Conroy, F; Chris Drury, F; Denis Gauthier, D; Martin Gelinas, F; Jarome Iginla, F; Toni Lydman, D; Scott Nichol, F; Rob Niedermayer, F; Robyn Regehr, D; Marc Savard, F; Blake Sloan, F; Jamie Wright, F; Stephane Yelle, F; Jamie McLennan, G; Roman Turek, G.
Available: Ryan Christie, F; Robert Dome, F; Dwayne Hay, F; Dave Huntzicker, D; Ladislav Kohn, F; Dave Lowry, F; Mike Martin, D; Jason Morgan, F; Rick Mrozik, D; Ronald Petrovicky, F; Martin Sonnenberg, F; Darcy Verot, F; Brad Werenka, D; Andrei Trefilov, G.
Carolina Hurricanes
Protected: Kevyn Adams, F; Bates Battaglia, F; Jesse Boulerice, F; Rod Brind'Amour, F; Erik Cole, F; Jeff Daniels, F; Ron Francis, F; Bret Hedican, D; Sean Hill, D; Sami Kapanen, F; Darren Langdon, F; Marek Malik, D; Jeff O'Neill, F; David Tanabe, D; Josef Vasicek, F; Niclas Wallin, D; Aaron Ward, D; Glen Wesley, D; Arturs Irbe, G; Kevin Weekes, G.
Available: Craig Adams, F; Kaspars Astashenko, D; Ryan Bast, D; Steven Halko, D; Craig MacDonald, F; Nikos Tselios, D; Mike Watt, F; Tommy Westlund, F; Jean-Marc Pelletier, G.
Chicago Blackhawks
Protected: Sergei Berezin, F; Eric Daze, F; Nathan Dempsey, D; Theoren Fleury, F; Phil Housley, D; Alexander Karpovtsev, D; Jon Klemm, D; Igor Korolev, F; Boris Mironov, D; Michael Nylander, F; Lyle Odelein, D; Steve Poapst, D; Bob Probert, F; Jason Strudwick, D; Steve Sullivan, F; Steve Thomas, F; Ryan Vandenbussche, F; Alexei Zhamnov, F; Steve Passmore, G; Jocelyn Thibault, G.
Available: Louie DeBrusk, F; Casey Hankinson, F; Matt Henderson, F; Josef Marha, F; Mike Peluso, F; Shawn Thornton, F; Dmitri Tolkunov, D; Peter White, F.
Colorado Avalanche
Protected: Serge Aubin, F; Rob Blake, D; Greg de Vries, D; Adam Foote, D; Peter Forsberg, F; Milan Hejduk, F; Dan Hinote, F; Mike Keane, F; Brad Larsen, F; Dean McAmmond, F; Eric Messier, F; Derek Morris, D; Scott Parker, F; Steve Reinprecht, F; Joe Sakic, F; Martin Skoula, D; D.J. Smith, D; Alex Tanguay, F; Petr Franek, G; Patrick Roy, G.
Available: Eric Bertrand, F; Steve Brule, F; Brett Clark, D; Bryan Muir, D; Jeff Paul, D; Jeff Shantz, F; Brent Thompson, D; Brian Willsie, F.
Columbus Blue Jackets
Protected: Jamie Allison, D; Andrew Cassels, F; Kevin Dineen, F; J-Luc Grand-Pierre, D; Rostislav Klesla, D; Espen Knutsen, F; Scott Lachance, D; Grant Marshall, F; Andrej Nedorost, F; Lasse Pirjeta, F; Luke Richardson, D; Geoff Sanderson, F; Jody Shelley, F; Mike Sillinger, F; Jaroslav Spacek, D; David Vyborny, F; Ray Whitney, F; Tyler Wright, F; Marc Denis, G; Jean-Francois Labbe, G.
Available: Radim Bicanek, D; Mathieu Darche, F; Matt Davidson, F; David Ling, F; Don MacLean, F; Sean Pronger, F; Darrel Scoville, D; Derrick Walser, D.
Dallas Stars
Protected: Jason Arnott, F; Philippe Boucher, D; Ulf Dahlen, F; Rob DiMaio, F; Aaron Downey, F; Bill Guerin, F; Derian Hatcher, D; Sami Helenius, D; Jere Lehtinen, F; Manny Malhotra, F; Richard Matvichuk, D; Mike Modano, F; Brenden Morrow, F; Kirk Muller, F; Darryl Sydor, D; Pierre Turgeon, F; Scott Young, F; Sergei Zubov, D; Ron Tugnutt, G; Marty Turco, G.
Available: Steve Gainey, F; David Gosselin, F; Greg Hawgood, D; Jeff MacMillan, D; Jim Montgomery, F; Gavin Morgan, F; David Oliver, F; Scott Pellerin, F; Jon Sim, F; Mark Wotton, D; Corey Hirsch, G.
Detroit Red Wings
Protected: Chris Chelios, D; Mathieu Dandenault, D; Pavel Datsyuk, F; Boyd Devereaux, F; Kris Draper, F; Sergei Fedorov, F; Jiri Fischer, D; Tomas Holmstrom, F; Brett Hull, F; Maxim Kuznetsov, D; Igor Larionov, F; Nicklas Lidstrom, D; Kirk Maltby, F; Darren McCarty, F; Luc Robitaille, F; Brendan Shanahan, F; Jesse Wallin, D; Steve Yzerman, F; Curtis Joseph, G; Manny Legace, G.
Available: Patrick Boileau, D; Eddy Campbell, D; Derek King, F; Mark Mowers, F; Michel Picard, F; Stacy Roest, F; Marc Lamothe, G.
Edmonton Oilers
Protected: Eric Brewer, D; Anson Carter, F; Daniel Cleary, F; Scott Ferguson, D; Josh Green, F; Mike Grier, F; Alex Henry, D; Shawn Horcoff, F; Georges Laraque, F; Todd Marchant, F; Ethan Moreau, F; Janne Niinimaa, D; Jason Smith, D; Ryan Smyth, F; Steve Staios, D; Brian Swanson, F; Mike York, F; Alexander Zhurik, D; Jussi Markkanen, G; Tommy Salo, G.
Available: Adam Bennett, D; Jozef Cierny, F; Chad Hinz, F; Ralph Intranuovo, F; Fredrik Lindquist, F; Fernando Pisani, F; Marty Reasoner, F; Craig Reichert, F; Peter Sarno, F; Sergei Yerkovich, D.
Florida Panthers
Protected: Valeri Bure, F; Paul Elliott, D; Mike Green, F; Niklas Hagman, F; Kristian Huselius, F; Ryan Johnson, F; Olli Jokinen, F; Viktor Kozlov, F; Paul Laus, F; Stephane Matteau, F; Marcus Nilson, F; Sandis Ozolinsh, D; Michel Periard, D; Byron Ritchie, F; Vladimir Sapozhnikov, D; Lance Ward, D; Peter Worrell, F; Dmitry Yushkevich, D; Jani Hurme, G; Roberto Luongo, G.
Available: Sven Butenschon, D; Jim Campbell, F; Pierre Dagenais, F; Andy Lundbohm, F; Joey Tetarenko, F; Rocky Thompson, F; Jeff Toms, F; Igor Ulanov, D; Wade Flaherty, G; Chris Mason, G.
Los Angeles Kings
Protected: Jason Allison, F; Eric Belanger, F; Ken Belanger, F; Brad Chartrand, F; Adam Deadmarsh, F; Mikko Eloranta, F; Craig Johnson, F; Ian Laperriere, F; Andreas Lilja, D; Chris McAlpine, D; Aaron Miller, D; Jaroslav Modry, D; Mattias Norstrom, D; Zigmund Palffy, F; Erik Rasmussen, F; Mathieu Schneider, D; Bryan Smolinski, F; Lubomir Visnovsky, D; Felix Potvin, G; Jamie Storr, G.
Available: Derek Armstrong, F; Derek Bekar, F; Steve Heinze, F; Jason Holland, D; Steve Kelly, F; Jan Nemecek, D; Pavel Rosa, F; Chris Schmidt, F; Richard Seeley, D; Travis Scott, G.
Minnesota Wild
Protected: Ladislav Benysek, D; Brad Bombardir, D; Brad Brown, D; Andrew Brunette, F; Jim Dowd, F; Pascal Dupuis, F; Darby Hendrickson, F; Matt Johnson, F; Filip Kuba, D; Antti Laaksonen, F; Jason Marshall, D; Willie Mitchell, D; Bill Muckalt, F; Richard Park, F; Cliff Ronning, F; Lubomir Sekeras, D; Wes Walz, F; Sergei Zholtok, F; Manny Fernandez, G; Dwayne Roloson, G.
Available: Sylvain Blouin, F; Mike Crowley, D; Greg Crozier, F; David Cullen, D; Hnat Domenichelli, F; Cory Larose, F; Curtis Murphy, D; Rastislav Pavlikovsky, F; Maxim Sushinsky, F; Jean-Guy Trudel, F; Tony Tuzzolino, F; Tony Virta, F; Dieter Kochan, G.
Montreal Canadiens
Protected: Donald Audette, F; Patrice Brisebois, D; Jan Bulis, F; Mariusz Czerkawski, F; Andreas Dackell, F; Karl Dykhuis, D; Doug Gilmour, F; Joe Juneau, F; Chad Kilger, F; Saku Koivu, F; Andrei Markov, D; Randy McKay, F; Yanic Perreault, F; Oleg Petrov, F; Stephane Quintal, D; Craig Rivet, D; Sheldon Souray, D; Richard Zednik, F; Jeff Hackett, G; Jose Theodore, G.
Available: Francis Bouillon, D; Matthieu Descoteaux, D; Benoit Gratton, F; Miloslav Guren, D; Martti Jarventie, D; Eric Landry, F; Bill Lindsay, F; Matt O'Dette, D; Gino Odjick, F; Stephane Robidas, D; Patrick Traverse, D; Jason Ward, F; Eric Fichaud, G.
Nashville Predators
Protected: Denis Arkhipov, F; Andy Delmore, D; Brent Gilchrist, F; Bill Houlder, D; Cale Hulse, D; Andreas Johansson, F; Greg Johnson, F; David Legwand, F; Vladimir Orszagh, F; Denis Pederson, F; Nathan Perrott, F; Robert Schnabel, D; Karlis Skrastins, D; Kimmo Timonen, D; Pascal Trepanier, D; Scott Walker, F; Clarke Wilm, F; Vitali Yachmenev, F; Mike Dunham, G; Tomas Vokoun, G.
Available: Andy Berenzweig, D; Marian Cisar, F; Greg Classen, F; Mark Eaton, D; Stu Grimson, F; Jere Karalahti, D; Greg Koehler, F; Cameron Mann, F; Domenic Pittis, F; Pavel Skrbek, D; Wyatt Smith, F; Peter Smrek, D; Petr Tenkrat, F.
New Jersey Devils
Protected: Sergei Brylin, F; Ken Daneyko, D; Patrik Elias, F; Jeff Friesen, F; Scott Gomez, F; Stephen Guolla, F; Jamie Langenbrunner, F; John Madden, F; Jim McKenzie, F; Scott Niedermayer, D; Joe Nieuwendyk, F; Jay Pandolfo, F; Brian Rafalski, D; Scott Stevens, D; Turner Stevenson, F; Oleg Tverdovsky, D; Colin White, D; Andrei Zyuzin, D; Martin Brodeur, G; Corey Schwab, G.
Available: Tommy Albelin, D; Jiri Bicek, F; Craig Darby, F; Ray Giroux, D; Joe Hulbig, F; Mike Matteucci, D; Dave Roche, F; Rob Skrlac, F; Ken Sutton, D.
New York Islanders
Protected: Arron Asham, F; Adrian Aucoin, D; Shawn Bates, F; Jason Blake, F; Eric Cairns, D; Roman Hamrlik, D; Brad Isbister, F; Kenny Jonsson, D; Evgeny Korolev, D; Oleg Kvasha, F; Claude Lapointe, F; Mark Parrish, F; Michael Peca, F; Dave Scatchard, F; Mattias Timander, D; Steve Webb, F; Jason Wiemer, F; Alexei Yashin,
F; Chris Osgood, G; Garth Snow, G.
Available: Kevin Haller, D; Konstantin Kalmikov, F; Alan Letang, D; Eric Manlow, F; Alain Nasreddine, D; Ray Schultz, D; Brandon Smith, D.
New York Rangers
Protected: Matthew Barnaby, F; Pavel Bure, F; Radek Dvorak, F; Rico Fata, F; Bobby Holik, F; Darius Kasparaitis, D; Brian Leetch, D; Eric Lindros, F; Richard Lintner, D; Vladimir Malakhov, D; Sandy McCarthy, F; Mark Messier, F; Rem Murray, F; Petr Nedved, F; Krzysztof Oliwa, F; Tom Poti, D; Dale Purinton, D; Mikael Samuelsson, F; Johan Holmqvist, G; Mike Richter, G.
Available: Joel Bouchard, D; Vladimir Chebaturkin, D; Ted Donato, F; Nisse Ekman, F; Ken Gernander, F; Boyd Kane, F; Dave Karpa, D; Sylvain Lefebvre, D; Dixon Ward, F; Scott Meyer, G; Bryce Wandler, G.
Ottawa Senators
Protected: Daniel Alfredsson, F; Magnus Arvedson, F; Radek Bonk, F; Zdeno Chara, D; Mike Fisher, F; Martin Havlat, F; Shane Hnidy, D; Marian Hossa, F; Jody Hull, F; Joel Kwiatkowski, D; Curtis Leschyshyn, D; Chris Neil, F; Chris Phillips, D; Wade Redden, D; Peter Schaefer, F; Petr Schastlivy, F; Shaun Van Allen, F; Todd White, F; Patrick Lalime, G; Martin Prusek, G.
Available: Dennis Bonvie, F; David Hymovitz, F; Steve Martins, F; Joe Murphy, F; Christer Olsson, D; Andy Schneider, F; Brad Smyth, F.
Philadelphia Flyers
Protected: Donald Brashear, F; Eric Desjardins, D; Todd Fedoruk, F; Simon Gagne, F; Mark Greig, F; Michal Handzus, F; Kim Johnsson, D; Kirby Law, F; John LeClair, F; Chris McAllister, D; Dan McGillis, D; Marty Murray, F; Keith Primeau, F; Paul Ranheim, F; Mark Recchi, F; Jeremy Roenick, F; Chris Therien, D; Eric Weinrich, D; Roman Cechmanek, G; Neil Little, G.
Available: Tomas Divisek, F; David Harlock, D; Ian MacNeil, F; Andre Savage, F; John Slaney, D; Brad Tiley, D; Pete Vandermeer, F.
Phoenix Coyotes
Protected: Tony Amonte, F; Daniel Briere, F; Kelly Buchberger, F; Shane Doan, F; Dan Focht, D; Mike Johnson, F; Daymond Langkow, F; Claude Lemieux, F; Paul Mara, D; Danny Markov, D; Brad May, F; Andrei Nazarov, F; Teppo Numminen, D; Brian Savage, F; Todd Simpson, D; Radoslav Suchy, D; Ossi Vaananen, D; Landon Wilson, F; Brian Boucher, G; Sean Burke, G.
Available: Drake Berehowsky, D; Zac Bierk, G.
Pittsburgh Penguins
Protected: Marc Bergevin, D; Shean Donovan, F; Jan Hrdina, F; Hans Jonsson, D; Alexei Kovalev, F; Dan Lacouture, F; Janne Laukkanen, D; Mario Lemieux, F; Kent Manderville, F; Steve McKenna, F; Ian Moran, D; Aleksey Morozov, F; Ville Nieminen, F; Wayne Primeau, F; Jamie Pushor, D; Randy Robitaille, F; Michal Rozsival, D; Martin Straka, F; Jean-Sebastien Aubin, G; Johan Hedberg, G.
Available: Rick Berry, D; Tom Kostopoulos, F; Francois Leroux, D; Jason MacDonald, F; Eric Meloche, F; Toby Petersen, F; Dick Tarnstrom, D; Vladimir Vujtek, F; Mike Wilson, D; Robbie Tallas, G.
St. Louis Blues
Protected: Daniel Corso, F; Pavol Demitra, F; Dallas Drake, F; Mike Eastwood, F; Jeff Finley, D; Alexander Khavanov, D; Christian Laflamme, D; Reed Low, F; Al MacInnis, D; Jamal Mayers, F; Scott Mellanby, F; Tyson Nash, F; Shjon Podein, F; Chris Pronger, D; Bryce Salvador, D; Cory Stillman, F; Keith Tkachuk, F; Doug Weight,
F; Fred Brathwaite, G; Brent Johnson, G.
Available: Steve Bancroft, D; Eric Boguniecki, F; Aris Brimanis, D; Marc Brown, F; Jason Dawe, F; Steve Dubinsky, F; Eric Nickulas, F; Rich Pilon, D; Jame Pollock, D; Stephane Roy, F; Daniel Tkaczuk, F; Sergei Varlamov, F.
San Jose Sharks
Protected: Matt Bradley, F; Vincent Damphousse, F; Adam Graves, F; Scott Hannan, D; Todd Harvey, F; Shawn Heins, D; Bryan Marchment, D; Patrick Marleau, F; Owen Nolan, F; Marcus Ragnarsson, D; Mike Rathje, D; Mike Ricci, F; Teemu Selanne, F; Mark Smith, F; Brad Stuart, D; Marco Sturm, F; Niklas Sundstrom, F; Scott
Thornton, F; Marc Kielkucki, G; Evgeni Nabokov, G.
Available: Tavis Hansen, F; John Jakopin, D; Ryan Kraft, F; Jeff Nelson, F; Scott Thomas, F.
Tampa Bay Lightning
Protected: Dave Andreychuk, F; Dan Boyle, D; Ben Clymer, F; Jassen Cullimore, D; Chris Dingman, F; Ruslan Fedotenko, F; Pavel Kubina, D; Vincent Lecavalier, F; Brad Lukowich, D; Fredrik Modin, F; Stan Neckar, D; Nolan Pratt, D; Vaclav Prospal, F; Brad Richards, F; Andre Roy, F; Cory Sarich, D; Martin St. Louis, F; Shane Willis, F; Kevin Hodson, G; Nikolai Khabibulin, G.
Available: Mathieu Biron, D; Gordie Dwyer, F; Matt Elich, F; Brian Holzinger, F; Darren Rumble, D; Tim Taylor, F.
Toronto Maple Leafs
Protected: Wade Belak, D; Aki Berg, D; Shayne Corson, F; Tie Domi, F; Tom Fitzgerald, F; Travis Green, F; Jonas Hoglund, F; Richard Jackman, D; Tomas Kaberle, D; Bryan McCabe, D; Alyn McCauley, F; Alexander Mogilny, F; Robert Reichel, F; Mikael Renberg, F; Gary Roberts, F; Mats Sundin, F; Robert Svehla, D; Darcy Tucker, F; Ed Belfour, G; Trevor Kidd, G.
Available: Lonny Bohonos, F; Ryan Bonni, D; Doug Doull, F; Anders Eriksson, D; Jonathan Gagnon, F; Maxim Galanov, D; Aaron Gavey, F; Mikael Hakanson, F; Paul Healey, F; Josh Holden, F; Brad Leeb, F; Jyrki Lumme, D; Craig Mills, F; Marc Moro, D; Bob Wren, F; Dmitriy Yakushin, D; Mike Minard, G.
Vancouver Canucks
Protected: Murray Baron, D; Todd Bertuzzi, F; Matt Cooke, F; Jan Hlavac, F; Ed Jovanovski, D; Trent Klatt, F; Trevor Letowski, F; Trevor Linden, F; Brendan  Morrison, F; Markus Naslund, F; Mattias Ohlund, D; Leif Rohlin, D; Jarkko Ruutu, F; Sami Salo, D; Daniel Sedin, F; Henrik Sedin, F; Brent Sopel, D; Todd Warriner, F;
Dan Cloutier, G; Peter Skudra, G.
Available: Nolan Baumgartner, D; Johan Davidsson, F; Jeff Farkas, F; Bryan Helmer, D; Steve Kariya, F; Pat Kavanagh, F; Zenith Komarniski, D; Jaroslav Obsut, D; Ryan Ready, F; Vadim Sharifijanov, F; Herbert Vasiljevs, F; Tyler Moss, G.
Washington Capitals
Protected: Peter Bondra, F; Ivan Ciernik, F; Sylvain Cote, D; Sergei Gonchar, D; Jeff Halpern, F; Jaromir Jagr, F; Calle Johansson, D; Ken Klee, D; Steve Konowalchuk, F; Robert Lang, F; Glen Metropolit, F; Kip Miller, F; Andrei Nikolishin, F; Todd Rohloff, D; Chris Simon, F; Ryan Vanbuskirk, D; Brendan Witt, D;
Dainius Zubrus, F; Sebastien Charpentier, G; Olaf Kolzig, G.
Available: Jason Doig, D; Chris Ferraro, F; Peter Ferraro, F; Colin Forbes, F; Chris Hajt, D; Dean Melanson, D; Mark Murphy, F; Trent Whitfield, F; Dwayne Zinger, D; Stephane Beauregard, G; Craig Billington, G.

PORTLAND, Ore. -- The premise was simple: jet up to the Pacific Northwest, see what life's like 4
 months after the numeric combinations delivered the top two picks to the Portland Trail Blazers and the Seattle SuperSonics.
I thought I knew the answer before I even printed my boarding pass. Sure, it might be a bummer that knee surgery will sideline Portland's Greg Oden for the season, but at least Blazer fans don't have to worry about their team leaving town  right, Seattle? Advantage, Portland.
Or so I believed.
That was before I talked to Oden and Brandon Roy -- while their healthy teammates practiced without them. That was before I walked into a gym packed with excited Sonics fans, without a sign or peep of protest. That was before I learned that right now Oden is at a matchup disadvantage with his dog, Charles Barkley McLovin, let alone Yao Ming and Tim Duncan. That was before I saw the Sonics' full-throttle offense in an open scrimmage. It was before I heard Roy say he might need surgery on his left heel. And before I heard the Sonics fan who spends five hours a day spearheading efforts to keep the team in Seattle say he was optimistic.
I wasn't prepared for the big letdown that comes with Oden walking into a room with the aid of crutches the size of a collegiate point guard. If you can remember vinyl records, you can remember that sickening feeling when one of your favorites got scratched.
This can't be happening to Greg. It's not just the Blazers that need Oden. And not only the NBA, either. Sports needs more people like him. As Portland general manager Kevin Pritchard said, "Oden brings an aura of a superstar player, but he doesn't act like a superstar."
Oden's polite to the point of offering me my choice of chairs to sit in. Since he's the one with the most value and the worst knee, I let him take the Herman Miller Aeron chair.  He's engaging and humorous, even making fun of his giant crutches.
"They're bigger than half the people in Portland," he said.
He's met enough of the locals to make that statement definitively. People come up to him when he's shopping for DVDs at Target or when he pops into a grocery store to use the ATM. They aren't shy. They greet him, welcome him to Portland and wish him well. I wonder if, in some way, even though it's no fault of his own, he feels as if he's letting them down.
"Yeah, I do," he said. "Because I want to be out there and I want to just show everybody and prove to myself, to the league and to this city. Not being able to do that kind of sucks."
He can't do much of anything right now. His friends drive him around town and to the Blazers' practice facility for rehab work. He uses the crutches for every step, except when he ditches them to hop around on one leg and scoop up Charles Barkley McLovin, a Boston/beagle mix whose name is a blend of one of Oden's favorite player and favorite movie ("Superbad").
The thing with Oden is, it isn't just this injury. He had a broken right wrist that kept him out the first month of his lone season at Ohio State. A frenzied schedule of appearances from coast to coast after the draft left him wiped out, and with a case of tonsillitis as well. Now he's had holes drilled in his knee to create fluid, the dreaded microfracture procedure that has been career-altering for some players.
How can we be assured Oden won't make more appearances on the injured list than at the All-Star Game?
"Because I am 19," Oden said. "Unless you have really, really bad luck, you're not going to have that many problems. I'm working hard. I feel I can come back from it. I just want people to know I have confidence I can come back. I'm going to work really, really hard to bring my knee back. My wrist is already back. All I'm doing is just my rehab, like they tell me to do."
When Roy heard the news about Oden, his shoulders sagged and his head dropped. Roy represented the Trail Blazers in Secaucus, N.J., when they won the lottery, and from the moment the Blazer logo went into the No. 1 spot he wanted Oden. After playing with him over the summer, Roy felt compelled to call his dad to say, "Man, Greg Oden is the real deal."
Now he's trying to find whatever positive spin he can after three little incisions in Oden's knee punctured gaping holes in Portland's season. At least they're aware beforehand that he'll be out for the year, Roy figures, so his absence won't be a shock.
"We know he's not going to be here," Roy said. "So we have got to step up."
Except when Roy tried to step up on the first day of training camp he felt a sharp pain in his left heel. It was a new sensation for an old injury. The heel first bothered him in the preseason last year, a soreness that never went away. His hard-working attitude and desire to make a good impression actually worked against him; he didn't complain and kept playing even though the pain didn't subside.
Finally, after the fourth regular-season game, he had an MRI exam and learned the irritation stemmed from the talus bone near his heel. Roy missed 20 of the team's first 25 games, and he says now that after he returned he never topped 90 percent of his capacity.
The good news is that Roy playing at 90 percent (and appearing in only 67 percent of the Blazers' games) was good enough to win Rookie of the Year. He's a savvy player with the mentality to make the right decisions and the skill to execute them. The bad news is coach Nate McMillan is already plotting ways to use Roy less this season, maxing him out at 35 minutes a game.
"It's hard, because he's one of those guys you don't want to take off the floor," McMillan said. "But you have to."
The Trail Blazers will keep him out of most if not all of the preseason games. But even the basketball version of the Yankees' "Joba Rules" might not be enough to keep Roy off the surgeon's table.
"There is a concern, because I don't want this to occur every year," Roy said. "And I don't want it to occur, maybe, in January. I think after the season we may revisit the idea of surgery. It's such a tough injury, they don't even know exactly what they would do if they went in  They know it's the bone, but they don't know if they shaved it down, would that make it better?"
After all those dark "Jail Blazer" days, when controversies and arrests for marijuana possession were regular events, now the team's has chronic issues of the injury kind.
The community relations part they have down. Oden's ready to go visit high schools at a moment's notice. Roy was all over the city last year, even wearing an orange vest to work as a crossing guard at an elementary school.
Pritchard told owner Paul Allen he'd rather lose with the right players than win with the wrong players. He has the right guys.
"We have made it an absolute priority to have great character, not characters," said Pritchard, who traded Zach Randolph away for pennies on the dollar last summer as part of the team's cleansing.
"Does that translate into wins immediately? No. Do I feel like culture can ultimately translate into winning team and a team that can do things in the playoffs? No question."
But the euphoria that greeted Oden's arrival cooled off when the news broke that he would miss the season.
"It felt like somebody had died," said John Canzano, a columnist for The Oregonian.
Season-ticket sales are up, but the franchise that once had 18 consecutive years of sellouts still has seats available for games this year. Seeing is believing, and it'll take a full season with Oden and Roy on the court for Portland fans to be convinced.
The natural next step would be an Oden-Kevin Durant rivalry, the 2007 draft classmates battling for supremacy in the Pacific Northwest.
But will the Sonics still be in Seattle next year?
For more on the Sonics' situation, click here.
J.A. Adande joined ESPN.com as an NBA columnist in August 2007 after 10 years with the Los Angeles Times. Click here to e-mail J.A.

The heir to Phil Jackson's throne in L.A. might be sitting somewhere in the picture above. Or not.Joe Murphy/NBAE/Getty ImagesJust about the only hole in Phil Jackson's unparalleled NBA coaching rsum is that he has not spun off successful assistant coaches, one of the reasons the Lakers find themselves with no obvious replacement whenever Jackson departs for good.Jackson hasn't sprouted a coaching tree like Bill Walsh. When Kurt Rambis left the Lakers for the Minnesota Timberwolves this month he became the sole current head coach from Jackson's bench and only the third Jackson assistant to become a full-time head coach. (Jim Cleamons in Dallas and Bill Cartwright in Chicago were the other two.)Part of this scarcity of subsequent success is due to Jackson's preference for older assistants such as Tex Winter, Johnny Bach and Frank Hamblen, rather than up-and-coming prospects. That's one of the reasons for Jackson's accomplishments; coaches such as Cleamons have tried to install the triangle offense in their new jobs, but they didn't have any of Jackson's old assistants who understood the offense's intricacies. Jackson had the triangle's creator, Winter, by his side, which would be like having one of the Wright brothers as a co-pilot for your first flight.It works for Jackson and the franchise in the short term, but imagine the Lakers' position if medical reports led doctors to recommend that Jackson should retire. Their choices would range from inexperienced to unaccomplished, almost inevitably going from the only coach with double-digit NBA championship rings to one with zero.Rambis had filled in for Jackson when Jackson's health issues prevented him from coaching, and Jackson even floated the idea of having Rambis coach the road games this coming season. But now Rambis is gone, a departure that has created two schools of thought: He's off to Minnesota to get training for the Lakers gig, or the reason he left is because Kobe Bryant would not have signed off on his ascension to the head-coaching job in L.A.Kurt Rambis and Kobe Bryant didn't see eye-to-eye in '99.Vincent Laforet/Getty ImagesWhen Rambis took over for Del Harris in 1999, one moment that might have kept the "interim" tag from getting removed was a late-season huddle incident in which Bryant refused to follow Rambis' directions and an exasperated Rambis gave up and told Bryant to do whatever he wanted. Shaquille O'Neal wasn't enamored with Rambis either -- this might have been the only thing the squabbling superstars agreed on -- and went upstairs after the Lakers were swept out of the playoffs by the Spurs to demand a coach on the level of Jackson or Chuck Daly.But whatever the state of Rambis and Bryant's relationship, it couldn't have been as frigid as Jackson and Bryant in 2004, when Jackson advocated trading Bryant and Bryant publicly greeted the news of Jackson's lame-duck status with a rousing yawn of indifference. Bryant wasn't exactly advocating the return of Jackson in 2005, but that didn't stop the Lakers from bringing him back. Now things have worked out just fine.Of course, Jackson's return followed the Lakers' first playoff-less season in 11 years, when Bryant's influence was at an ebb. Now, Bryant just delivered a championship, taking the whole organization off the hook for the Shaq trade once and for all, and he's eligible for a contract extension. He has the clout again. He's professed his interest in Mike Krzyzewski, and one observer noted that Coach K's declaration in June that "I would never leave Duke until I leave coaching" came just before Jackson's public announcement that he was returning to coach the Lakers next year. In other words, if the signs pointed to Jackson's retiring, Coach K would have kept the door open wider. As it stands now, don't consider it closed. "Never" seems to have the same meaning to coaches as it does to Brett Favre.Even though Jackson will evaluate his future on an annual basis, the thought process around the Lakers is that he doesn't want to walk away from potential championships as long as Bryant is one of the NBA's top players, and he's also intrigued enough by the prospect of coaching the mercurial Ron Artest that it could prolong his stay.If Bryant still wields influence, another name to keep in mind is New York Knicks coach Mike D'Antoni. That means that what LeBron James does or doesn't do in free agency next summer could be as significant to the Lakers as to the Knicks. If the Knicks fail to land an impact free agent in the 2010 derby and their program doesn't make progress, D'Antoni could come into play for the Lakers. That's another coach for whom Bryant has shown respect, a relationship that dates back to Bryant's youth in Italy when D'Antoni played there.Another name that would probably get a nod from Bryant would be Lakers assistant Brian Shaw, a teammate on the three-peat squads at the start of the decade. When the Kobe-Shaq rift threatened to blow up the team at the start of the 2003-04 season, it was the recently retired Shaw who came down from his home in Oakland to broker a truce between the stars, a summit made possible by their mutual respect for Shaw, who was always one of the cooler (and balder) heads in the locker room.Lakers assistant Brian Shaw has yet to land a head-coaching job.Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty ImagesShaw showed his leadership skills in a pregame speech before the Lakers' dramatic overtime victory in Game 4 of the 2009 Finals against Orlando. Scouting the Magic fell to Shaw in the Lakers' division of duties among the assistant coaches, but on this night Shaw didn't diagram any plays on the dry-erase board. After the Lakers watched video and Jackson addressed the team, it was Shaw's turn. Jackson noted the empty board. At that point, after playing the Magic twice in the regular season and three times in the playoffs, the Lakers had nothing to gain from X's and O's. Instead, Shaw told the players, it was simply up to them. He reminded them that when he played, he might have been a journeyman, but he felt confident when he stepped on the court with dominant players like Shaq and Kobe, a great coach in Jackson, veterans such as Ron Harper and Robert Horry. This 2009 group still had Jackson plus Bryant, the coldest player around, one of the best centers in Pau Gasol, one of the most versatile in Lamar Odom. There should be nothing to be afraid of. Afterward players said the speech gave them chills.Shaw has interviewed for vacancies in Indiana, Sacramento, Phoenix and Chicago in the past without landing a head-coaching job. Some argue that after only four seasons as an assistant, he isn't ready yet. That would still be four more years of coaching experience than Vinny Del Negro had before he got the Chicago job last year.If the Lakers want experience and resonance with their fan base in addition to Kobe approval, they could go after New Orleans coach Byron Scott, a three-time champion as a Lakers player in the 1980s whose return to Los Angeles for his final year in 1996-97 coincided with Bryant's rookie year. Scott coached the New Jersey Nets to back-to-back NBA Finals appearances in 2002 and 2003 and won the Coach of the Year award with the Hornets in 2008. While Scott said he is happy with the Hornets, they lack the financial clout of the Lakers and the nostalgic pull that franchise has on Scott, who grew up near the old Forum in Inglewood.  In November he told the Los Angeles Times that the Lakers are "home for me. That's an organization that will be embedded in my heart for the rest of my life."But history doesn't always guarantee a future with the Lakers. They haven't made a serious commitment to someone who came up through their own ranks since Pat Riley went from the radio booth to the bench to the head-coaching job in the 1980s. (And don't rule a Riley comeback out completely once Jackson retires. Riley's ownership stake in the Heat makes extracting him from Miami difficult, but that didn't keep the Lakers from talking to him in 2004.) The Lakers have brought back Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, their center on the five championships teams in the 1980s, although in his role as special assistant coach he doesn't even sit on the bench. It would be hard to imagine his making the giant stride straight to head coach.For now, to borrow from one of the books that influenced Jackson, it's about the art of maintenance. Can Jackson stay healthy? Can Bryant stay at the top of his game? If the former somehow outlasts the latter, it changes everything. Once those 1,123 regular-season and playoff games in his first 13 seasons catch up to Bryant, will the Lakers job be quite as appealing? Would Jackson want to hold on to it?Jackson has been known to beat it before the really bad days come around. He always seems to be gone before the roster purges, leaving behind high expectations but little talent (The Tim Floyd Experience). That could make a guy like Rambis want to stay in Minnesota, where he has a new GM who hired him and has publicly stated the team is not expected to contend soon. NBA jobs don't get any more low-pressure than that. (And sources said Rambis does not have a clause in his contract that frees him if the Lakers job opens, as some college coaches do for their alma mater or favorites.)If the Lakers want to explore another option, they could look at current assistant Cleamons, whose sole previous head-coaching stop in Dallas found him caught in the middle of three feuding stars, who soon became former stars. Jason Kidd went first, then Don Nelson became the general manager and went into full mad-scientist mode, sending Jamal Mashburn to Miami and putting together a package that included Jim Jackson and Sam Cassell to get Shawn Bradley from New Jersey. Nelson fired Cleamons in December of the next season and took over the head-coaching job himself. Cleamons has been hoping for a head-coaching job since.But he might never join a fraternity as small as the one he's in now, those who turned time at Phil Jackson's side into their own lengthy time in the light. For now, Jackson's light is still shining  even if it hasn't clearly illuminated a successor.J.A. Adande is an ESPN.com senior writer and the author of "The Best Los Angeles Sports Arguments." Click here to e-mail J.A.

Just about the only hole in Phil Jackson's unparalleled NBA coaching rsum is that he has not spun off successful assistant coaches, one of the reasons the Lakers find themselves with no obvious replacement whenever Jackson departs for good.
Jackson hasn't sprouted a coaching tree like Bill Walsh. When Kurt Rambis left the Lakers for the Minnesota Timberwolves this month he became the sole current head coach from Jackson's bench and only the third Jackson assistant to become a full-time head coach. (Jim Cleamons in Dallas and Bill Cartwright in Chicago were the other two.)
Part of this scarcity of subsequent success is due to Jackson's preference for older assistants such as Tex Winter, Johnny Bach and Frank Hamblen, rather than up-and-coming prospects. That's one of the reasons for Jackson's accomplishments; coaches such as Cleamons have tried to install the triangle offense in their new jobs, but they didn't have any of Jackson's old assistants who understood the offense's intricacies. Jackson had the triangle's creator, Winter, by his side, which would be like having one of the Wright brothers as a co-pilot for your first flight.
It works for Jackson and the franchise in the short term, but imagine the Lakers' position if medical reports led doctors to recommend that Jackson should retire. Their choices would range from inexperienced to unaccomplished, almost inevitably going from the only coach with double-digit NBA championship rings to one with zero.
Rambis had filled in for Jackson when Jackson's health issues prevented him from coaching, and Jackson even floated the idea of having Rambis coach the road games this coming season. But now Rambis is gone, a departure that has created two schools of thought: He's off to Minnesota to get training for the Lakers gig, or the reason he left is because Kobe Bryant would not have signed off on his ascension to the head-coaching job in L.A.
When Rambis took over for Del Harris in 1999, one moment that might have kept the "interim" tag from getting removed was a late-season huddle incident in which Bryant refused to follow Rambis' directions and an exasperated Rambis gave up and told Bryant to do whatever he wanted. Shaquille O'Neal wasn't enamored with Rambis either -- this might have been the only thing the squabbling superstars agreed on -- and went upstairs after the Lakers were swept out of the playoffs by the Spurs to demand a coach on the level of Jackson or Chuck Daly.
But whatever the state of Rambis and Bryant's relationship, it couldn't have been as frigid as Jackson and Bryant in 2004, when Jackson advocated trading Bryant and Bryant publicly greeted the news of Jackson's lame-duck status with a rousing yawn of indifference. Bryant wasn't exactly advocating the return of Jackson in 2005, but that didn't stop the Lakers from bringing him back. Now things have worked out just fine.
Of course, Jackson's return followed the Lakers' first playoff-less season in 11 years, when Bryant's influence was at an ebb. Now, Bryant just delivered a championship, taking the whole organization off the hook for the Shaq trade once and for all, and he's eligible for a contract extension. He has the clout again. He's professed his interest in Mike Krzyzewski, and one observer noted that Coach K's declaration in June that "I would never leave Duke until I leave coaching" came just before Jackson's public announcement that he was returning to coach the Lakers next year. In other words, if the signs pointed to Jackson's retiring, Coach K would have kept the door open wider. As it stands now, don't consider it closed. "Never" seems to have the same meaning to coaches as it does to Brett Favre.
Even though Jackson will evaluate his future on an annual basis, the thought process around the Lakers is that he doesn't want to walk away from potential championships as long as Bryant is one of the NBA's top players, and he's also intrigued enough by the prospect of coaching the mercurial Ron Artest that it could prolong his stay.
If Bryant still wields influence, another name to keep in mind is New York Knicks coach Mike D'Antoni. That means that what LeBron James does or doesn't do in free agency next summer could be as significant to the Lakers as to the Knicks. If the Knicks fail to land an impact free agent in the 2010 derby and their program doesn't make progress, D'Antoni could come into play for the Lakers. That's another coach for whom Bryant has shown respect, a relationship that dates back to Bryant's youth in Italy when D'Antoni played there.
Another name that would probably get a nod from Bryant would be Lakers assistant Brian Shaw, a teammate on the three-peat squads at the start of the decade. When the Kobe-Shaq rift threatened to blow up the team at the start of the 2003-04 season, it was the recently retired Shaw who came down from his home in Oakland to broker a truce between the stars, a summit made possible by their mutual respect for Shaw, who was always one of the cooler (and balder) heads in the locker room.
Shaw showed his leadership skills in a pregame speech before the Lakers' dramatic overtime victory in Game 4 of the 2009 Finals against Orlando. Scouting the Magic fell to Shaw in the Lakers' division of duties among the assistant coaches, but on this night Shaw didn't diagram any plays on the dry-erase board. After the Lakers watched video and Jackson addressed the team, it was Shaw's turn. Jackson noted the empty board. At that point, after playing the Magic twice in the regular season and three times in the playoffs, the Lakers had nothing to gain from X's and O's. Instead, Shaw told the players, it was simply up to them. He reminded them that when he played, he might have been a journeyman, but he felt confident when he stepped on the court with dominant players like Shaq and Kobe, a great coach in Jackson, veterans such as Ron Harper and Robert Horry. This 2009 group still had Jackson plus Bryant, the coldest player around, one of the best centers in Pau Gasol, one of the most versatile in Lamar Odom. There should be nothing to be afraid of. Afterward players said the speech gave them chills.
Shaw has interviewed for vacancies in Indiana, Sacramento, Phoenix and Chicago in the past without landing a head-coaching job. Some argue that after only four seasons as an assistant, he isn't ready yet. That would still be four more years of coaching experience than Vinny Del Negro had before he got the Chicago job last year.
If the Lakers want experience and resonance with their fan base in addition to Kobe approval, they could go after New Orleans coach Byron Scott, a three-time champion as a Lakers player in the 1980s whose return to Los Angeles for his final year in 1996-97 coincided with Bryant's rookie year. Scott coached the New Jersey Nets to back-to-back NBA Finals appearances in 2002 and 2003 and won the Coach of the Year award with the Hornets in 2008. While Scott said he is happy with the Hornets, they lack the financial clout of the Lakers and the nostalgic pull that franchise has on Scott, who grew up near the old Forum in Inglewood.  In November he told the Los Angeles Times that the Lakers are "home for me. That's an organization that will be embedded in my heart for the rest of my life."
But history doesn't always guarantee a future with the Lakers. They haven't made a serious commitment to someone who came up through their own ranks since Pat Riley went from the radio booth to the bench to the head-coaching job in the 1980s. (And don't rule a Riley comeback out completely once Jackson retires. Riley's ownership stake in the Heat makes extracting him from Miami difficult, but that didn't keep the Lakers from talking to him in 2004.) The Lakers have brought back Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, their center on the five championships teams in the 1980s, although in his role as special assistant coach he doesn't even sit on the bench. It would be hard to imagine his making the giant stride straight to head coach.
For now, to borrow from one of the books that influenced Jackson, it's about the art of maintenance. Can Jackson stay healthy? Can Bryant stay at the top of his game? If the former somehow outlasts the latter, it changes everything. Once those 1,123 regular-season and playoff games in his first 13 seasons catch up to Bryant, will the Lakers job be quite as appealing? Would Jackson want to hold on to it?
Jackson has been known to beat it before the really bad days come around. He always seems to be gone before the roster purges, leaving behind high expectations but little talent (The Tim Floyd Experience). That could make a guy like Rambis want to stay in Minnesota, where he has a new GM who hired him and has publicly stated the team is not expected to contend soon. NBA jobs don't get any more low-pressure than that. (And sources said Rambis does not have a clause in his contract that frees him if the Lakers job opens, as some college coaches do for their alma mater or favorites.)
If the Lakers want to explore another option, they could look at current assistant Cleamons, whose sole previous head-coaching stop in Dallas found him caught in the middle of three feuding stars, who soon became former stars. Jason Kidd went first, then Don Nelson became the general manager and went into full mad-scientist mode, sending Jamal Mashburn to Miami and putting together a package that included Jim Jackson and Sam Cassell to get Shawn Bradley from New Jersey. Nelson fired Cleamons in December of the next season and took over the head-coaching job himself. Cleamons has been hoping for a head-coaching job since.
But he might never join a fraternity as small as the one he's in now, those who turned time at Phil Jackson's side into their own lengthy time in the light. For now, Jackson's light is still shining  even if it hasn't clearly illuminated a successor.
J.A. Adande is an ESPN.com senior writer and the author of "The Best Los Angeles Sports Arguments." Click here to e-mail J.A.

On Jan. 13, 1999, the game's greatest player announced he was done (until 2001).Getty ImagesTen years ago today, I stepped off a red-eye flight from Los Angeles, met up at O'Hare airport with The Washington Post's Michael Wilbon and caught the train downtown, then fought a Chicago wind so fierce we had to walk backward to hail a cab for our trip to the United Center to see the official farewell to the Michael Jordan era.It wasn't the end of Jordan's career, as it turned out. There was that two-year comeback with the Washington Wizards. But Jan. 13, 1999, was the final moment of the basketball player as icon, a business perfected by Jordan in a way that never will be seen again.There were more than 800 reporters in the United Center that day. I was part of a two-man team from the Los Angeles Times. Can you imagine more than 800 reporters from around the country converging to cover a retirement news conference today, with a bank of 25 cameras focused on one individual and a fleet of satellite trucks parked outside to beam his words to the world?This is the press pass from MJ's retirement conference.J.A. AdandeWouldn't happen in baseball, although it's hard to judge because the greatest hitter and greatest pitcher of this era, Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens, still won't officially announce their retirements. Maybe they're afraid if they held a news conference, someone would show up with a subpoena.The NFL is our most popular sport, but would Peyton Manning draw 800? Are there still 800 sports reporters employed in America?It's not the athletes that have changed as much as the world outside the sports bubble. Media cutbacks mean fewer journalists to create the mythology, and more Web sites mean more opportunities to take people down. Every collegiate misstep speeds across the Internet so fast that by the time a player gets to the pros, he's already been pre-ridiculed. An early Jordan TV appearance just popped up on the Web; if YouTube had been around when Jordan was at North Carolina, he would have been so humiliated by that he probably wouldn't get in front of a camera again.There'll never be another Jordan the way there'll never be another Johnny Carson or another Walter Cronkite. Individuals don't hold our interest that regularly and that long anymore.For one thing, there are too many other issues that demand our attention, a shift that kept even Jordan from being the same Jordan in our eyes during his 2001 comeback. The wreckage of the World Trade Center was still smoldering when Jordan announced his return in subdued fashion after the Sept. 11 attacks. And in the athletic realm, Jordan's name was no longer bigger than sports itself.When his debut in a Wizards uniform went against Game 3 of Yankees versus Diamondbacks in the World Series, almost six times as many people watched the baseball game. By the time his playing days were done, it seemed worthless to have another news conference -- those days were over, even for Jordan. Ultimately, his departure from Washington was documented by a single camera that caught his Mercedes zooming out of the parking garage after Wizards owner Abe Pollin told Jordan his services were no longer required in the front office.Amid the current economic crisis, the last thing people are going to embrace is an athlete's popping up to pitch something superfluous to buy. Tiger Woods is probably the closest thing to Jordan on the American sports landscape, and even he has been victimized by downsizing in the new endorsement marketplace.The media swarmed MJ's announcement of his retirement in 1999.Matthew Stockman/Getty ImagesJordan also benefited from the lack of a true challenger. At MJ's peak, there was no Bird to his Magic, no one with whom to share the accomplishments or divvy up the attention. All of Jordan's successors have had to do battle with Jordan himself, long after he retired. Going one-on-one with Jordan was nothing compared with competing with the memories of him, the moves glorified in highlight videos and even song. Unlike Kobe Bryant and LeBron James, Jordan never had to deal with the label of The Next Jordan.If they carry that burden, they also have a ceiling placed on them by diminished expectations. People used to ask Jordan, in all seriousness, whether he could fly. He was compared to God. When Jordan retired that day in 1999, someone went as far as to ask whether he would use his spare time to help solve the world's problems."I can't save the world, by no means," Jordan replied, because apparently that needed clarification.We no longer bother to ask our athletes to rescue us anymore. The best we can do is kindly request they don't shoot us in the club. In this environment, it's impossible for another athlete to become anointed. On that cold Chicago day 10 years ago, athletes still felt like historic figures worth chronicling. I still remember so many details about that trip, including checking into my hotel. Such is the legacy of Michael Jordan that even the person least familiar with his story could understand why I smiled at the coincidence as the front desk clerk handed me my key card and told me the number.Room 2323.J.A. Adande joined ESPN.com as an NBA columnist in August 2007 after 10 years with the Los Angeles Times. Click here to e-mail J.A.

Ten years ago today, I stepped off a red-eye flight from Los Angeles, met up at O'Hare airport with The Washington Post's Michael Wilbon and caught the train downtown, then fought a Chicago wind so fierce we had to walk backward to hail a cab for our trip to the United Center to see the official farewell to the Michael Jordan era.
It wasn't the end of Jordan's career, as it turned out. There was that two-year comeback with the Washington Wizards. But Jan. 13, 1999, was the final moment of the basketball player as icon, a business perfected by Jordan in a way that never will be seen again.
There were more than 800 reporters in the United Center that day. I was part of a two-man team from the Los Angeles Times. Can you imagine more than 800 reporters from around the country converging to cover a retirement news conference today, with a bank of 25 cameras focused on one individual and a fleet of satellite trucks parked outside to beam his words to the world?
Wouldn't happen in baseball, although it's hard to judge because the greatest hitter and greatest pitcher of this era, Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens, still won't officially announce their retirements. Maybe they're afraid if they held a news conference, someone would show up with a subpoena.
The NFL is our most popular sport, but would Peyton Manning draw 800? Are there still 800 sports reporters employed in America?
It's not the athletes that have changed as much as the world outside the sports bubble. Media cutbacks mean fewer journalists to create the mythology, and more Web sites mean more opportunities to take people down. Every collegiate misstep speeds across the Internet so fast that by the time a player gets to the pros, he's already been pre-ridiculed. An early Jordan TV appearance just popped up on the Web; if YouTube had been around when Jordan was at North Carolina, he would have been so humiliated by that he probably wouldn't get in front of a camera again.
There'll never be another Jordan the way there'll never be another Johnny Carson or another Walter Cronkite. Individuals don't hold our interest that regularly and that long anymore.
For one thing, there are too many other issues that demand our attention, a shift that kept even Jordan from being the same Jordan in our eyes during his 2001 comeback. The wreckage of the World Trade Center was still smoldering when Jordan announced his return in subdued fashion after the Sept. 11 attacks. And in the athletic realm, Jordan's name was no longer bigger than sports itself.
When his debut in a Wizards uniform went against Game 3 of Yankees versus Diamondbacks in the World Series, almost six times as many people watched the baseball game. By the time his playing days were done, it seemed worthless to have another news conference -- those days were over, even for Jordan. Ultimately, his departure from Washington was documented by a single camera that caught his Mercedes zooming out of the parking garage after Wizards owner Abe Pollin told Jordan his services were no longer required in the front office.
Amid the current economic crisis, the last thing people are going to embrace is an athlete's popping up to pitch something superfluous to buy. Tiger Woods is probably the closest thing to Jordan on the American sports landscape, and even he has been victimized by downsizing in the new endorsement marketplace.
Jordan also benefited from the lack of a true challenger. At MJ's peak, there was no Bird to his Magic, no one with whom to share the accomplishments or divvy up the attention. All of Jordan's successors have had to do battle with Jordan himself, long after he retired. Going one-on-one with Jordan was nothing compared with competing with the memories of him, the moves glorified in highlight videos and even song. Unlike Kobe Bryant and LeBron James, Jordan never had to deal with the label of The Next Jordan.
If they carry that burden, they also have a ceiling placed on them by diminished expectations. People used to ask Jordan, in all seriousness, whether he could fly. He was compared to God. When Jordan retired that day in 1999, someone went as far as to ask whether he would use his spare time to help solve the world's problems.
"I can't save the world, by no means," Jordan replied, because apparently that needed clarification.
We no longer bother to ask our athletes to rescue us anymore. The best we can do is kindly request they don't shoot us in the club. In this environment, it's impossible for another athlete to become anointed. On that cold Chicago day 10 years ago, athletes still felt like historic figures worth chronicling. I still remember so many details about that trip, including checking into my hotel. Such is the legacy of Michael Jordan that even the person least familiar with his story could understand why I smiled at the coincidence as the front desk clerk handed me my key card and told me the number.
Room 2323.
J.A. Adande joined ESPN.com as an NBA columnist in August 2007 after 10 years with the Los Angeles Times. Click here to e-mail J.A.

This dance routine was just the first of many times Shaq thrilled the crowd Sunday.Barry Gossage/Getty ImagesPHOENIX -- Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant really do make the greatest tandem in NBA history.No other duo could both overwhelm opponents and overshadow everything else, combining the basketball prowess of Magic and Kareem or Jordan and Pippen with the tabloid headlines of Brad and Angelina or Lindsay and Samantha. In an All-Star weekend teeming with trade rumors and front-office moves, Shaq and Kobe went from subplot to main story line, stealing the show with performances that won them co-Most Valuable Player awards followed by a turn at the news conference dais that ought to win an Emmy for best comedy sketch.We've seen them dominate games before the way they did on Sunday when Bryant scored a game-high 27 points and O'Neal had 17 points in 11 minutes during the West's 146-119 victory. Maybe we just forgot after we watched Shaquille O'Neal's rap video last summer, or read certain passages of Phil Jackson's book "The Last Season," or learned the details of Kobe Bryant's statement to the Eagle, Colo., police back in 2004.But they've never been a better comedic duo then they were Sunday afternoon as they shared the dais, playing off each other, Shaq acting silly and Kobe coming up with the funniest line of his career while trying to downplay the nostalgic feelings of their first game together since their eight-year run in Los Angeles ended in 2004."We are not going to go back to the room and watch 'Steel Magnolias or something like that," Bryant said.They stopped just short of a dinner date on Sunday, high-fiving, hugging, holding hands ... I was surprised they weren't shown on the arena scoreboard's Kiss Cam during a timeout.The third quarter was when they did get the old chemistry going, bringing back memories of the way they ran through the league for three consecutive championships.Shaq was the star, with Bryant directing. After O'Neal checked in midway through the period, Bryant set up a play for him that resulted in a Shaq layup. Next, Shaq moved out to the wing, called out a give-and-go play with Chris Paul and got the ball back for a dunk.Then Shaq really took over, when the East went with a small lineup consisting of Ray Allen, Danny Granger, Mo Williams, Paul Pierce and Rashard Lewis, with Lewis guarding O'Neal.Bryant immediately ran a play for Shaq inside, and Shaq dunked. They ran a pick-and-roll, Kobe missed a layup, but Shaq followed it up with a dunk. Another time down, Kobe saw Lewis on Shaq and told his center "Post his [butt] up." Shaq followed orders, Kobe gave him the ball and Shaq dunked.In all, O'Neal scored 11 points in just under six minutes. That was enough to get him the MVP on my ballot. I thought about putting Bryant's name alongside it, but it seemed like Shaq's performance would really be the one everyone talked about Monday.Next thing you knew, both were standing on the podium behind David Stern, handing them the trophy, with Shaq playfully trying to pull it away from him.Of course it ended like this."What did you think was going to happen?" Paul said.And if that last finishing touch seemed a little too scripted, an NBA public relations official explained that O'Neal won the media voting 5-4, and Bryant received two points for winning the fan vote and O'Neal received one point for finishing second in the fan vote, making the final tally 6-6.Even by NBA standards, this outcome felt preordained, from the time the All-Star rosters were finalized and we knew O'Neal would join Bryant and his former Lakers coach Phil Jackson in the West. In the buildup, Bryant dreaded talking about it and O'Neal relished the chance to employ his favorite tactic "marketing."Typical. Shot distribution wasn't the only area they differed. Shaq always emphasized entertainment and Bryant put a premium on results, a stylistic split evident in the buildup and the start to the All-Star game Sunday.The JabbaWockeeZ danced their way into the player intros, and just when everyone was wondering if we really needed break-dancing mimes at an NBA game, out came Shaq, wearing a white mask like the other members of the group and showing some serious moves. The crowd loved it.You will never, ever see Bryant do something like that. It's not as if he didn't have his chance. Kevin Garnett boogied a bit, and LeBron James stepped from the back row to the front of the stage to do some dancing himself. Bryant never budged, not even when the Eastern All-Stars dancingly stepped to the West starters, like the Sharks versus the Jets or a scene out of "You Got Served."Bryant saved it for the court, coming out in attack mode, shooting 10 times in the first quarter and scoring 11 points. You could imagine Shaq turning to his Western teammates on the bench and saying, "See?" On the first pick-and-roll they ran together, O'Neal was open in the lane but Bryant opted to shoot instead.Everything changed in the third quarter."Every play, we were like, 'Shaq, we're coming to you, we're coming to you,'" Brandon Roy said. "He said, 'All right, I've got about five minutes in me.'"Shaq appeared to have a little more in store, but right when he got by Paul Pierce and started to get creative with the ball, Pierce fouled him.Shaq, ever the embellisher: "I was getting ready to do a Vince Carter wrong-way windmill like he did in the 2000 Dunk Contest."Kobe: "And then he woke up."Shaq: "I was getting ready to windmill that thang."Reality will snap back Monday, when the Suns fire Terry Porter. O'Neal's name is popping up in trade rumors as well for the cost-cutting Suns. You never know, this could be O'Neal's last time as a "home" player in USAirways Center."I think about it every day," Shaq said. "But I haven't talked to Steve [Kerr] about it."It also could very well be his final All-Star Game. Thus, the dancing."I realized that this may possibly be my last one, so I wanted to make it memorable for myself and the fans," O'Neal said.He did. He's the best entertainer in the league, and he and Kobe have been its best combination for more than a decade, whether they were together or on opposite ends of the country, they were always linked, always making news."We had a good time," Kobe acknowledged. "That's all."Nothing wrong with being nostalgic. It is not necessarily my cup of tea."They sat next to each other, maybe one last time."They are where they are right now," East coach Mike Brown said. "But if they were to stay together, no telling how many more rings they would have had on their fingers and toes."They probably needed to split up, for their sanity and for Bryant to test the boundaries of the game. But if Jerry Buss, Robert Sarver, or the fans with their All-Star ballots ever want to bring them together again, we can be sure there's nothing better the NBA has to offer.J.A. Adande is an ESPN.com senior writer and the author of "The Best Los Angeles Sports Arguments." Click here to e-mail J.A.

PHOENIX -- Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant really do make the greatest tandem in NBA history.
No other duo could both overwhelm opponents and overshadow everything else, combining the basketball prowess of Magic and Kareem or Jordan and Pippen with the tabloid headlines of Brad and Angelina or Lindsay and Samantha. In an All-Star weekend teeming with trade rumors and front-office moves, Shaq and Kobe went from subplot to main story line, stealing the show with performances that won them co-Most Valuable Player awards followed by a turn at the news conference dais that ought to win an Emmy for best comedy sketch.
We've seen them dominate games before the way they did on Sunday when Bryant scored a game-high 27 points and O'Neal had 17 points in 11 minutes during the West's 146-119 victory. Maybe we just forgot after we watched Shaquille O'Neal's rap video last summer, or read certain passages of Phil Jackson's book "The Last Season," or learned the details of Kobe Bryant's statement to the Eagle, Colo., police back in 2004.
But they've never been a better comedic duo then they were Sunday afternoon as they shared the dais, playing off each other, Shaq acting silly and Kobe coming up with the funniest line of his career while trying to downplay the nostalgic feelings of their first game together since their eight-year run in Los Angeles ended in 2004.
"We are not going to go back to the room and watch 'Steel Magnolias or something like that," Bryant said.
They stopped just short of a dinner date on Sunday, high-fiving, hugging, holding hands ... I was surprised they weren't shown on the arena scoreboard's Kiss Cam during a timeout.
The third quarter was when they did get the old chemistry going, bringing back memories of the way they ran through the league for three consecutive championships.
Shaq was the star, with Bryant directing. After O'Neal checked in midway through the period, Bryant set up a play for him that resulted in a Shaq layup. Next, Shaq moved out to the wing, called out a give-and-go play with Chris Paul and got the ball back for a dunk.
Then Shaq really took over, when the East went with a small lineup consisting of Ray Allen, Danny Granger, Mo Williams, Paul Pierce and Rashard Lewis, with Lewis guarding O'Neal.
Bryant immediately ran a play for Shaq inside, and Shaq dunked. They ran a pick-and-roll, Kobe missed a layup, but Shaq followed it up with a dunk. Another time down, Kobe saw Lewis on Shaq and told his center "Post his [butt] up." Shaq followed orders, Kobe gave him the ball and Shaq dunked.
In all, O'Neal scored 11 points in just under six minutes. That was enough to get him the MVP on my ballot. I thought about putting Bryant's name alongside it, but it seemed like Shaq's performance would really be the one everyone talked about Monday.
Next thing you knew, both were standing on the podium behind David Stern, handing them the trophy, with Shaq playfully trying to pull it away from him.
Of course it ended like this.
"What did you think was going to happen?" Paul said.
And if that last finishing touch seemed a little too scripted, an NBA public relations official explained that O'Neal won the media voting 5-4, and Bryant received two points for winning the fan vote and O'Neal received one point for finishing second in the fan vote, making the final tally 6-6.
Even by NBA standards, this outcome felt preordained, from the time the All-Star rosters were finalized and we knew O'Neal would join Bryant and his former Lakers coach Phil Jackson in the West. In the buildup, Bryant dreaded talking about it and O'Neal relished the chance to employ his favorite tactic "marketing."
Typical. Shot distribution wasn't the only area they differed. Shaq always emphasized entertainment and Bryant put a premium on results, a stylistic split evident in the buildup and the start to the All-Star game Sunday.
The JabbaWockeeZ danced their way into the player intros, and just when everyone was wondering if we really needed break-dancing mimes at an NBA game, out came Shaq, wearing a white mask like the other members of the group and showing some serious moves. The crowd loved it.
You will never, ever see Bryant do something like that. It's not as if he didn't have his chance. Kevin Garnett boogied a bit, and LeBron James stepped from the back row to the front of the stage to do some dancing himself. Bryant never budged, not even when the Eastern All-Stars dancingly stepped to the West starters, like the Sharks versus the Jets or a scene out of "You Got Served."
Bryant saved it for the court, coming out in attack mode, shooting 10 times in the first quarter and scoring 11 points. You could imagine Shaq turning to his Western teammates on the bench and saying, "See?" On the first pick-and-roll they ran together, O'Neal was open in the lane but Bryant opted to shoot instead.
Everything changed in the third quarter.
"Every play, we were like, 'Shaq, we're coming to you, we're coming to you,'" Brandon Roy said. "He said, 'All right, I've got about five minutes in me.'"
Shaq appeared to have a little more in store, but right when he got by Paul Pierce and started to get creative with the ball, Pierce fouled him.
Shaq, ever the embellisher: "I was getting ready to do a Vince Carter wrong-way windmill like he did in the 2000 Dunk Contest."
Kobe: "And then he woke up."
Shaq: "I was getting ready to windmill that thang."
Reality will snap back Monday, when the Suns fire Terry Porter. O'Neal's name is popping up in trade rumors as well for the cost-cutting Suns. You never know, this could be O'Neal's last time as a "home" player in USAirways Center.
"I think about it every day," Shaq said. "But I haven't talked to Steve [Kerr] about it."
It also could very well be his final All-Star Game. Thus, the dancing.
"I realized that this may possibly be my last one, so I wanted to make it memorable for myself and the fans," O'Neal said.
He did. He's the best entertainer in the league, and he and Kobe have been its best combination for more than a decade, whether they were together or on opposite ends of the country, they were always linked, always making news.
"We had a good time," Kobe acknowledged. "That's all.
"Nothing wrong with being nostalgic. It is not necessarily my cup of tea."
They sat next to each other, maybe one last time.
"They are where they are right now," East coach Mike Brown said. "But if they were to stay together, no telling how many more rings they would have had on their fingers and toes."
They probably needed to split up, for their sanity and for Bryant to test the boundaries of the game. But if Jerry Buss, Robert Sarver, or the fans with their All-Star ballots ever want to bring them together again, we can be sure there's nothing better the NBA has to offer.
J.A. Adande is an ESPN.com senior writer and the author of "The Best Los Angeles Sports Arguments." Click here to e-mail J.A.

Ultimately it was the calendar that killed Reggie Miller's thoughts of coming back to the NBA.
It was Thursday, the day before his 42nd birthday, and Miller tried to project six to seven months in the future. How would it feel to wake up in a Memphis hotel room in March and prepare for the Boston Celtics' 61st game, with the playoffs still six weeks away?
The grind got him. Not the physical toll, not the whole "tarnished legacy" thing, not slipping skills.
"I can still shoot with the best of them," the NBA's all-time 3-point leader said.
He knows how excited he would have been in October to resume his career after two years in retirement. November, December, even the first part of January would have been intriguing to him. But that's when the season hits a hole, when it seems like the games and flights and shootarounds keep coming with no end in sight.
"Mentally, I don't know if I can do eight months," he said. "February, March, I would have been dead."
So the experiment was over before it really got started. A couple of weeks after telling ESPN.com that he was considering coming back to play with the Celtics, he told the Indianapolis Star that it wasn't going to happen.
Maybe he should have asked for one of those Roger Clemens deals, shown up halfway through the season and gotten clearance to head home whenever he wanted. But basketball doesn't work that way. As monotonous as the regular season might be, it's still vital for teams to establish themselves, find something that works, develop a rhythm. No shortcuts. Michael Jordan tried it in '95, coming back in March. He went out in the second round of the playoffs, upstaged by Nick Anderson and the young Orlando Magic.
Oh, and speaking of Jordan ...
"I want people to know, I wasn't coming back because I was bored," Miller said. "I wasn't. Michael Jordan was bored when he came back. I didn't miss the games, I didn't miss the locker room, I didn't miss the bus, I didn't miss the planes. I wanted to come back to play with Kevin [Garnett] and possibly win a championship. That was the reason I took it seriously and went two-a-days for two weeks straight."
It wasn't championship-or-bust. The Eastern Conference finals would have been good for him, enough to let him know the return was worth it. He was intrigued by the chance to play with Garnett. Sure, Ray Allen and Paul Pierce are nice, but Miller sniffs, "I've done them." He got most two-guards one way or another, even had his moments where he upstaged MJ.


-- Reggie Miller

But Garnett? Think about it: Miller never played alongside a certain Hall-of-Famer. During his 18 years with the Indiana Pacers there was Chuck Person, Detlef Schrempf, Rik Smits, a couple of Davises, Jermaine O'Neal. All-stars, but not all-timers.
Garnett is different. With Shaq on the decline, Garnett immediately becomes the best big man in the Eastern Conference. He was clearly the best player in the league as recently as 2004. That was the year he had a healthy and motivated Sam Cassell and Latrell Sprewell alongside him and made it to the conference finals. All of a sudden he has weapons beside him again.
"Right now he's a kid in a candy store," Miller said. "It's gonna be unbelievable. I wanted to be part of that. He is going to have an unbelievable year with or without me. I've admired his game from afar. When Danny Ainge called, I said, 'Oh my God, I have a chance to play with Kevin Garnett!'"
It was enough to make him shift from preparing for a another season of speaking into a microphone for TNT (with a preparation routine consisting of nothing more than lifting the remote control) to rigorous workouts twice daily.
"The first five days my body told me not to," Miller said. "Once I got past that, my body felt great."
You don't hear those words coming from an NBA player's mouth in February. People used to joke about using fake injuries to open spots on the active roster, but the trainers would tell you every player has some type of legit injury by the second half of the season; it's just a matter of getting them through the next game, then on to the next city.
What does it say about the length of the NBA season when Miller says even the novelty of a last hurrah with a dream teammate would fizzle out sometime after the All-Star break? But of course, the owners would never give up the revenues that come with a season that's some 20 games too long.
Are they being selfish? Sure. But one other thing this episode taught us was how selfish sports fans can be as well.
Pacers fans who had rooted for him his entire career were sickened by the thought of him in Celtics green. Even fans who loathed him when he hit big shots against their teams fretted that he would weaken their memories of him if he came back as a diminished version of his old gunslinger self.
But who would be harmed, exactly? Would anything he did erase the memories of his 25-point fourth quarter or eight-point minute in Madison Square Garden? They'd still exist. So would his record for the most 3-pointers in NBA history, which would only have increased with every long jumper this season.
Athletes have a right to be selfish when it comes to their careers. Fans don't. Athletes have a limited window to do this. They also have that singular drive, that arrogance that thinks they can defy the odds and be the exceptions. That's how they made it to the pros in the first place.
Miller wasn't fooling himself. He knew he wouldn't be an All-Star. He just wanted to make contributions -- especially in crunch time.
"I told Kevin I want to be able to carry my own bags," he said.
He just doesn't want to be living out of a suitcase come February and March.
"It would've been tough, but I could've done it," Miller said. "I'm wrestling with my decision now because I know I could've done it."
It's over. He's told Ainge, he's told Garnett that he won't be playing, and he doesn't want to go back on that.
"But I'm gonna wrestle with it," Miller said.
Bet he won't have any second thoughts in March.
J.A. Adande joined ESPN.com as an NBA columnist in August 2007 after 10 years with the Los Angeles Times. Click here to e-mail J.A.

Nene has all the tools needed for the NBA, but his body has failed him at times thus far.Garrett Ellwood/NBAE/Getty ImagesSometimes a case study like Nene comes along and you realize how flimsy NBA careers -- or perhaps the league itself -- can be because they're based on a flawed premise: the human body.In the grand scheme of things, our bodies are still in the beta test mode. The original design may not have called for us to walk upright on two legs, let alone jump repeatedly at 10-foot baskets.Humans are like an incredible feat of engineering, the most advanced computers placed in the most versatile vehicles.  But they're still so prone to breakdowns. It feels even more disturbing when our best models don't work right.Nene's career has indeed been defined by his body. It enticed the Nuggets to grab him on draft day in 2002 (the Knicks drafted him with the No. 7 pick, then dealt him to Denver). It's the reason they signed him to a $60 million contract.Unfortunately, his body has been noteworthy for repeated malfunctions. Injuries have limited him to appearances in only 289 of the Denver Nuggets' 437 games since they traded for him before his rookie season. One season consisted of just three minutes, the time it took him to blow out his knee on opening night.Now it's even worse. He had surgery to remove a testicular tumor (about the worst pairing of words a man can hear) and now, hopefully it will only be a matter of a few more missed games.It's a matter of waiting for biopsy results to see if the tumor was cancerous. That would be the ultimate betrayal: His body's own cells turned against him.Wasn't his body supposed to be the last thing we worried about? There were plenty of questions, of course, but none had to do with anything physical. How would he adjust to NBA basketball? How would the native of Brazil adapt to living in the United States?These were the things we wondered about. Not his body, no sir. That was the reason we talked about him in the first place.Back then, he was known as Maybyner (Nene) Hilario, and back then his body made him the most intriguing prospect in the 2002 draft.He had an almost unfair combination of physical gifts. He stands 6-foot-9 with a wingspan of 7 feet, 5 inches. Great leaping ability. Plus quickness, a lightness on his feet accentuated by the many hours he spent playing soccer in Brazil.The physique and style drew comparisons to Hakeem Olajuwon and Shawn Kemp."It's very flattering and it's a lot of responsibility to be compared to them," he said in an interview after a predraft workout for the Phoenix Suns. "But I really want to be known as Nene, which is a mix of all those."He literally did want to just be known as Nene. He soon shed the first and last names legally to be known by a single moniker, just like the Brazilian World Cup soccer stars.His NBA career kept getting reduced as well. It seems we only got to see glimpses of him, teasing flashes of his talent, between injuries.There's a certain scorn sports fans have for athletes who miss games for injury and infirmity. It's as if fans hold players responsible for every accident or every design deficiency. Or they're angry about that unfulfilled promise, about athletic gifts gone to waste.Sometimes it seems as if the greatest talent comes in the most fragile packages. Even Nene's most talented classmate from the 2002 draft, Amare Stoudemire, lost a season of his career because of microfracture surgery on his knee.It gets back to the other side of our fascination with sports. You wish you could do the things they do. But do you really wish you could have them undone so easily?J.A. Adande is the author of "The Best Los Angeles Sports Arguments." He joined ESPN.com as an NBA columnist in August 2007 after 10 years with the Los Angeles Times. Click here to e-mail J.A.

Sometimes a case study like Nene comes along and you realize how flimsy NBA careers -- or perhaps the league itself -- can be because they're based on a flawed premise: the human body.
In the grand scheme of things, our bodies are still in the beta test mode. The original design may not have called for us to walk upright on two legs, let alone jump repeatedly at 10-foot baskets.
Humans are like an incredible feat of engineering, the most advanced computers placed in the most versatile vehicles.  But they're still so prone to breakdowns. It feels even more disturbing when our best models don't work right.
Nene's career has indeed been defined by his body. It enticed the Nuggets to grab him on draft day in 2002 (the Knicks drafted him with the No. 7 pick, then dealt him to Denver). It's the reason they signed him to a $60 million contract.
Unfortunately, his body has been noteworthy for repeated malfunctions. Injuries have limited him to appearances in only 289 of the Denver Nuggets' 437 games since they traded for him before his rookie season. One season consisted of just three minutes, the time it took him to blow out his knee on opening night.
Now it's even worse. He had surgery to remove a testicular tumor (about the worst pairing of words a man can hear) and now, hopefully it will only be a matter of a few more missed games.
It's a matter of waiting for biopsy results to see if the tumor was cancerous. That would be the ultimate betrayal: His body's own cells turned against him.
Wasn't his body supposed to be the last thing we worried about? There were plenty of questions, of course, but none had to do with anything physical. How would he adjust to NBA basketball? How would the native of Brazil adapt to living in the United States?
These were the things we wondered about. Not his body, no sir. That was the reason we talked about him in the first place.
Back then, he was known as Maybyner (Nene) Hilario, and back then his body made him the most intriguing prospect in the 2002 draft.
He had an almost unfair combination of physical gifts. He stands 6-foot-9 with a wingspan of 7 feet, 5 inches. Great leaping ability. Plus quickness, a lightness on his feet accentuated by the many hours he spent playing soccer in Brazil.
The physique and style drew comparisons to Hakeem Olajuwon and Shawn Kemp.
"It's very flattering and it's a lot of responsibility to be compared to them," he said in an interview after a predraft workout for the Phoenix Suns. "But I really want to be known as Nene, which is a mix of all those."
He literally did want to just be known as Nene. He soon shed the first and last names legally to be known by a single moniker, just like the Brazilian World Cup soccer stars.
His NBA career kept getting reduced as well. It seems we only got to see glimpses of him, teasing flashes of his talent, between injuries.
There's a certain scorn sports fans have for athletes who miss games for injury and infirmity. It's as if fans hold players responsible for every accident or every design deficiency. Or they're angry about that unfulfilled promise, about athletic gifts gone to waste.
Sometimes it seems as if the greatest talent comes in the most fragile packages. Even Nene's most talented classmate from the 2002 draft, Amare Stoudemire, lost a season of his career because of microfracture surgery on his knee.
It gets back to the other side of our fascination with sports. You wish you could do the things they do. But do you really wish you could have them undone so easily?
J.A. Adande is the author of "The Best Los Angeles Sports Arguments." He joined ESPN.com as an NBA columnist in August 2007 after 10 years with the Los Angeles Times. Click here to e-mail J.A.

B.J. Mullens could be the second Ohio State center in the past three seasons to be picked first overall.Ned Dishman/Getty ImagesNBA scouts continue to offer dire warnings about the NBA draft class of 2009. After two stellar years, thanks to amazing college freshman classes, a draft drought may be on the way."Even if you assume everyone declares for the draft next June," one longtime NBA executive said, "you'll struggle to find much star power or depth next year. My scouts are walking around depressed already and it's September."Sometimes things change over the course of the college basketball season, but scouts walked away from a number of summer events convinced that the NBA draft pool is in recession.Still, a few players helped themselves this summer, whether it was playing for their national teams at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing or working as camp counselors at LeBron James' annual summer camp in Akron, Ohio.Here's who's hot and who's not, according to a handful of NBA scouts:HotRicky Rubio, PG, Spain
Rubio's solid, and sometimes dazzling, play in Beijing had scouts buzzing. It's not everyday you see a 17-year-old play a critical role on the silver-medal team at the Olympics. His defensive presence was critical to Spain's success in the tournament. NBA players also raved about Rubio's poise and basketball IQ.If he produces in the Euroleague this season, he seems like a lock for the top 5 and a possible candidate for the No. 1 pick in the draft.Jerome Jordan, C, Tulsa
Jordan was the hot name at the LeBron James Skills Academy in July. NBA scouts are always looking for big guys with a pulse, and Jordan showed scintillating potential here. Consistently matched up against potential lottery prospect Hasheem Thabeet, Jordan stole the show.While his two-year numbers at Tulsa don't blow you away, Jordan did seem to turn it on late last season. He is still somewhat raw offensively, but he is a proven rebounder and shot-blocker. If he can continue to perfect the little jump hook he showed off at LeBron's camp, he could move into the top 10 this season -- the same way big-men projects seem to do every year.James Harden, SG, Arizona State
Harden was the other player who seemed to really stand out at LeBron's camp. He didn't have the buzz of other Pac-10 freshmen like O.J. Mayo and Kevin Love last season, but he was named to the All-Pac-10 first team along with Mayo and Love.Scouts have questioned his athleticism, but they are beginning to hedge a bit after Harden showed off some hops and quickness that they didn't see his freshman year.Speedy Patrick Mills gave Chris Paul and Deron Williams all they could handle.Garrett W. Ellwood/NBAE/Getty ImagesPatrick Mills, PG, St. Mary's
Mills played for the Australian national team in the Olympics and gave Team USA fits with his quickness. Chris Paul and Deron Williams both had a difficult time guarding him. Mills ended up leading Australia with 20 points in its quarterfinal loss to Team USA. His performance was enough for scouts to start buzzing about his potential to be a mid-first-round pick.B.J. Mullens, C, Ohio State
Mullens didn't play in the Olympics or at LeBron's camp, but as NBA scouts have scoured footage this summer, more and more are saying that the Buckeyes' freshman is the odds-on favorite to be the No. 1 pick in the 2009 draft."You look at his size, his athleticism and his skill level and he's the guy, more than anyone else in this draft, that stands out," one NBA scout said. "If anyone in this draft has the potential to be a dominant NBA player, it's him. I'm not saying he'll get there. He's got a lot to work on. The NBA always has had a love affair with big guys and no big guy in the draft has the potential of Mullens. If I was a betting man, I'd say he goes No. 1."I know it is ridiculously early to be talking about this, but I'm actually fairly persuaded by their arguments. If you look at the potential five worst teams in the league -- the Nets, Knicks, Thunder, Grizzlies and Timberwolves -- all of them need a prime-time center. Only two of them, the Knicks and Timberwolves, are really in the market for a point guard.Blake Griffin will also get some love for the top spot, but the more you think about it, Mullens is the guy if he performs. Of course, that's a big if. Last year some scouts were saying similar things about DeAndre Jordan, who slipped into the second round on draft night.NotAustin Daye, SF, Gonzaga 
Daye got a huge scare when he hurt himself in LeBron's camp. Originally, reports were that he tore his ACL; however, ESPN.com's Andy Katz reported that Daye was told by doctors at UCLA that he had a bone bruise and a minor, low-grade tear that wouldn't require surgery.While Gonzaga coaches are saying Daye is ready to start playing again, the loss of a summer to work on his game could have an impact on his development. Combine that with the lackluster performance he was having at the camp before the injury and scouts are no longer banking on him as a high lottery pick next year.Hasheem Thabeet, C, UConn
Thabeet has the combination of size and athleticism that NBA scouts dream about. He's also an elite shot-blocker who could step in immediately and change the game on the defensive end of the floor. But his development on the offensive end continues to be slow. Scouts thought he was outplayed, at times badly, by Jerome Jordan at LeBron's camp.Given his size and his potential, along with the relative weakness of this year's draft class, Thabeet still projects as a top-10 prospect. However, more and more scouts are wondering aloud if he deserves to go that high.Darren Collison, PG, UCLA
Collison's decision to skip the 2008 draft shocked practically everyone. At the time, he already had three years of college under his belt and UCLA was bringing in a loaded freshman class led by super stud Jrue Holiday and Malcolm Lee.Now, heading into the college season, I'm hearing whispers out of UCLA that Holiday is so good that it won't be long before he, not Collison, is running the offense at UCLA. I'd expect them to get significant time together in the backcourt, but if Holiday is as good as advertised, Collison could suffer from the comparisons and slip in the draft -- the same way he did when compared to Russell Westbrook last season.Chad Ford covers the NBA for ESPN Insider.

NBA scouts continue to offer dire warnings about the NBA draft class of 2009. After two stellar years, thanks to amazing college freshman classes, a draft drought may be on the way.
"Even if you assume everyone declares for the draft next June," one longtime NBA executive said, "you'll struggle to find much star power or depth next year. My scouts are walking around depressed already and it's September."
Sometimes things change over the course of the college basketball season, but scouts walked away from a number of summer events convinced that the NBA draft pool is in recession.
Still, a few players helped themselves this summer, whether it was playing for their national teams at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing or working as camp counselors at LeBron James' annual summer camp in Akron, Ohio.
Here's who's hot and who's not, according to a handful of NBA scouts:
Ricky Rubio, PG, Spain
Rubio's solid, and sometimes dazzling, play in Beijing had scouts buzzing. It's not everyday you see a 17-year-old play a critical role on the silver-medal team at the Olympics. His defensive presence was critical to Spain's success in the tournament. NBA players also raved about Rubio's poise and basketball IQ.
If he produces in the Euroleague this season, he seems like a lock for the top 5 and a possible candidate for the No. 1 pick in the draft.
Jerome Jordan, C, Tulsa
Jordan was the hot name at the LeBron James Skills Academy in July. NBA scouts are always looking for big guys with a pulse, and Jordan showed scintillating potential here. Consistently matched up against potential lottery prospect Hasheem Thabeet, Jordan stole the show.
While his two-year numbers at Tulsa don't blow you away, Jordan did seem to turn it on late last season. He is still somewhat raw offensively, but he is a proven rebounder and shot-blocker. If he can continue to perfect the little jump hook he showed off at LeBron's camp, he could move into the top 10 this season -- the same way big-men projects seem to do every year.
James Harden, SG, Arizona State
Harden was the other player who seemed to really stand out at LeBron's camp. He didn't have the buzz of other Pac-10 freshmen like O.J. Mayo and Kevin Love last season, but he was named to the All-Pac-10 first team along with Mayo and Love.
Scouts have questioned his athleticism, but they are beginning to hedge a bit after Harden showed off some hops and quickness that they didn't see his freshman year.
Patrick Mills, PG, St. Mary's
Mills played for the Australian national team in the Olympics and gave Team USA fits with his quickness. Chris Paul and Deron Williams both had a difficult time guarding him. Mills ended up leading Australia with 20 points in its quarterfinal loss to Team USA. His performance was enough for scouts to start buzzing about his potential to be a mid-first-round pick.
B.J. Mullens, C, Ohio State
Mullens didn't play in the Olympics or at LeBron's camp, but as NBA scouts have scoured footage this summer, more and more are saying that the Buckeyes' freshman is the odds-on favorite to be the No. 1 pick in the 2009 draft.
"You look at his size, his athleticism and his skill level and he's the guy, more than anyone else in this draft, that stands out," one NBA scout said. "If anyone in this draft has the potential to be a dominant NBA player, it's him. I'm not saying he'll get there. He's got a lot to work on. The NBA always has had a love affair with big guys and no big guy in the draft has the potential of Mullens. If I was a betting man, I'd say he goes No. 1."
I know it is ridiculously early to be talking about this, but I'm actually fairly persuaded by their arguments. If you look at the potential five worst teams in the league -- the Nets, Knicks, Thunder, Grizzlies and Timberwolves -- all of them need a prime-time center. Only two of them, the Knicks and Timberwolves, are really in the market for a point guard.
Blake Griffin will also get some love for the top spot, but the more you think about it, Mullens is the guy if he performs. Of course, that's a big if. Last year some scouts were saying similar things about DeAndre Jordan, who slipped into the second round on draft night.
Austin Daye, SF, Gonzaga 
Daye got a huge scare when he hurt himself in LeBron's camp. Originally, reports were that he tore his ACL; however, ESPN.com's Andy Katz reported that Daye was told by doctors at UCLA that he had a bone bruise and a minor, low-grade tear that wouldn't require surgery.
While Gonzaga coaches are saying Daye is ready to start playing again, the loss of a summer to work on his game could have an impact on his development. Combine that with the lackluster performance he was having at the camp before the injury and scouts are no longer banking on him as a high lottery pick next year.
Hasheem Thabeet, C, UConn
Thabeet has the combination of size and athleticism that NBA scouts dream about. He's also an elite shot-blocker who could step in immediately and change the game on the defensive end of the floor. But his development on the offensive end continues to be slow. Scouts thought he was outplayed, at times badly, by Jerome Jordan at LeBron's camp.
Given his size and his potential, along with the relative weakness of this year's draft class, Thabeet still projects as a top-10 prospect. However, more and more scouts are wondering aloud if he deserves to go that high.
Darren Collison, PG, UCLA
Collison's decision to skip the 2008 draft shocked practically everyone. At the time, he already had three years of college under his belt and UCLA was bringing in a loaded freshman class led by super stud Jrue Holiday and Malcolm Lee.
Now, heading into the college season, I'm hearing whispers out of UCLA that Holiday is so good that it won't be long before he, not Collison, is running the offense at UCLA. I'd expect them to get significant time together in the backcourt, but if Holiday is as good as advertised, Collison could suffer from the comparisons and slip in the draft -- the same way he did when compared to Russell Westbrook last season.
Chad Ford covers the NBA for ESPN Insider.

With Miami likely in rebuilding mode, free-agent-to-be Shawn Marion could be hitting the road again.Randy Belice/Getty ImagesThe NBA trading frenzy that normally seizes teams come February could be arriving a little early this season.
Assigned to write a column on who could be traded during this season, I was surprised by the number of teams that seemed "open for business" on the trade front.Typically, significant trades don't go down in preseason, or the first month of the season. It usually isn't until December, with a month or more of games under everyone's belts, that we start hearing the trade drums.
But this year, from the sound of things, the talk may be coming faster and more furiously than in years past.Why? Two factors seem to be in play.First, it was a relatively quiet summer as far as trades go. We saw some fireworks on draft night, but after that  for the most part, crickets.Ron Artest got traded. So did Mo Williams and Marcus Camby. But that's not enough to call it a blockbuster summer.Second, there were a lot of players dangled in the summer who, for a variety of reasons, didn't get traded. Some -- like Zach Randolph and Jamaal Tinsley -- are very difficult to deal. For others, the timing just wasn't right.But as we head into the season, there are a number of unstable teams that still appear primed and ready to pull the trigger if the right deal comes along.Here's a look at 10 or so players (in no particular order) who could be on the move before the February trade deadline:Shawn Marion, HeatMarion will be a free agent after the season and he's not happy about it. After he brooded in Phoenix because he wasn't feeling the love financially, the Suns moved him to Miami in a deal for Shaquille O'Neal last season. The problem now is that Marion doesn't appear to have a long-term future in Miami. The team is going through a rebuilding process with Dwyane Wade and rookie Michael Beasley as the cornerstones. Marion, who turns 31 at the end of the season and plays the same position as Beasley, doesn't appear to be a great fit.He has been dangled to the Lakers and Jazz, and more recently the Heat tried to work out something with the Bulls that would have brought them Ben Gordon and others.If Marion plays well early in the season, his value will go up for contending teams that need defense, rebounding and athleticism. But I'm not sure how much the Heat will actually be able to get for Marion. As talented as he is, I've yet to come across a GM who wants to give him huge dollars next year.Carlos Boozer, JazzBoozer has apparently convinced Utah GM Kevin O'Connor that he has no intention of bolting the Jazz for the Heat (or any other team) next summer when he can opt out of his contract.But I'm not buying it.There is just too much chatter around the league about Boozer to ignore. Given that the Cavs likewise had reason to believe that Boozer wouldn't leave them high and dry when they let him out of his contract in 2004, only to watch him turn around and sign a huge deal with the Jazz a few weeks later, how sure can O'Connor be that he won't lose Boozer for nothing?The Jazz should get some interesting offers for Boozer in the next few months. If O'Connor can net another All-Star in return, he'd probably be wise to take the deal and run. Losing Boozer for nothing next summer would be a devastating blow to the team's ability to compete for the title.Lamar Odom, LakersOdom played the role of scapegoat for angry Lakers fans after L.A. lost to the Celtics in the Finals. He didn't help his cause by showing up at camp out of shape. And he seemed to dig himself an even bigger hole when he criticized Phil Jackson for suggesting Odom might best help the Lakers by coming off the bench this season. In the past few days, Odom has backtracked and said he'd do what was best for the team, but most in the league think it's only a matter of time before the Lakers find a new home for him.The team spent some time this summer looking at a few deals, but nothing materialized. Look for the Lakers to restart those talks sooner rather than later. Jackson's triangle offense is notoriously hard for recently acquired players to learn, and given Odom's impending free agency, now seems to be the right time to move him.A Marion-for-Odom swap might make the most sense for both parties involved, though I've heard there's interest in Odom in quite a few cities, including Cleveland, Chicago, New Jersey, New York and Orlando.Vince Carter, NetsNo one was sure what the Nets were thinking when they gave Carter that huge $66 million contract in the summer of 2007. Carter's game was already in decline, and New Jersey's chances of competing for a title looked slim. By midseason, Jason Kidd was gone. Then Richard Jefferson was shipped off on draft night. Now Carter is the only star left on a once-proud franchise. It's clear the Nets are rebuilding and clearing cap space for the summer of 2010. While Carter could provide a stabilizing force on such a young team, I'm not sure owner Bruce Ratner wants to pay Carter an average of $16 million a year to be a mentor on a lottery team.The most obvious fit for Vince might be in L.A., as the Lakers are looking for a more traditional small forward, and the Nets would love to make a Carter-for-Odom swap that would clear another huge chunk of salary off their books. But his terrible contract is making the Lakers (and everyone else) think twice. If the Lakers aren't interested, the Clippers might be.A swap of Carter for Cuttino Mobley and Tim Thomas would help the Nets cut costs and give the Clippers a better shot at being competitive. One way or another, expect Nets president Rod Thorn to work his magic and find a good deal, just as he did when he originally acquired Carter.Ben Gordon, BullsMany scratched their heads this summer when Chicago GM John Paxson didn't trade Kirk Hinrich after drafting Derrick Rose with the No. 1 pick.
Though I haven't always agreed with Paxson, he was thinking clearly on this one. Had he traded Hinrich, free agent Ben Gordon would've been in a much better negotiating position with the Bulls, knowing they wouldn't want to lose their two key backcourt veterans in the same summer.But Gordon called his bluff and signed his one-year qualifying offer. Now Paxson has a decision to make.On one hand, the chances of his losing Gordon next season when he hits unrestricted free agency are high. Gordon hasn't been happy with the way the Bulls have negotiated, and that's probably not going to change. On the other hand, Gordon's contract demands have been fairly outrageous. The reason there was no sign-and-trade talk was that no one in the league wanted to pay Gordon what he was asking. So maybe he won't have as many free-agent suitors as he thinks.But in any case, it's likely he'll want a change of scenery, and the Bulls sound willing to give it to him (though they can't trade him until Jan. 1). If they do, they'll have to get his consent to any trade, but as long as he's sent to a team with cap room and playing time, I doubt he'd object.Rasheed Wallace, PistonsA fired-up Joe Dumars promised to make some moves in Detroit after the Pistons lost in the Eastern Conference finals for the third straight year. But, so far, Dumars has found that his collection of team-oriented players can't bring him back the impact player he hungers for (e.g., a young star like Carmelo Anthony).The Pistons have experience and talent at every position, and they are deeper than ever. They also have a new head coach, Michael Curry, who has the respect of the players. But should things not go well, you can expect the Pistons to dangle Wallace near the trade deadline. For all of his talent, it's difficult to know which Rasheed will show up on game night. With Wallace's contract set to expire at the end of the season, someone might be willing to give Joe D what he's looking for in exchange for some cap relief next year.David Lee, KnicksLee is the most popular player in New York these days. His hustle, athleticism and grittiness have made him a bright spot in the squalor. And with Mike D'Antoni implementing his run-and-gun offense, Lee has looked fantastic in the preseason.But to keep Lee, who becomes a restricted free agent next summer, the Knicks would have to pay a terrible price, considering that team president Donnie Walsh is trying to clear cap space for the summer of 2010. As the Knicks currently stand, if Walsh signs Lee to a big extension, any hope of having cap space to lure LeBron James goes out the window.Walsh has tried to move Randolph and/or Eddy Curry instead, but he isn't having any luck. If we get to late January or February and Randolph and Curry are both on the roster, Walsh is going to have to include Lee to sweeten the package. That's a steep price to pay for the mere chance to lure LeBron to New York. But if he caves and pays Lee, the Knicks are basically stuck with the same crappy team until 2011. I don't think Walsh -- or the Knicks' long-suffering fan contingent -- has that much patience.Raymond Felton, BobcatsThe Bobcats surprised a lot of people when they drafted point guard D.J. Augustin in the lottery. But the Bobcats had been quietly shopping Felton ever since Larry Brown took over as coach.While neither Augustin nor Felton has taken over this preseason, the word out of Charlotte is that Augustin, sooner or later, is going to be the point guard in Charlotte. With Felton heading into restricted free agency next summer, look for the Bobcats to get something in return while they can. Felton may never be a superstar, but he's a starting point guard, and those aren't always easy to come by.Darko Milicic, GrizzliesQuick quiz: Which two players on the Memphis Grizzlies have the highest salaries? If you guessed Antoine Walker and Darko Milicic, you understand Grizzlies owner Michael Heisley's pain. Memphis is in cost-cutting mode, and Milicic makes too much money for a terrible team. GM Chris Wallace appears to think that Marc Gasol is the long-term answer to the hole in the middle, and coach Marc Iavaroni wasn't a huge Darko fan last season.So, you may be wondering, why would anyone trade for Darko? The answer might surprise you. A number of GMs are still interested in him. No, he's never going to be a star. But he is an excellent shot-blocker and has only two years left on his contract. The Knicks tried to pry him away as part of a Zach Randolph deal. I think you'll see other GMs make a play this fall and winter.The Portland SevenThe Blazers head into the next summer with the potential to have major cap space, with seven players hitting the free-agent market. But there's a catch.First, Darius Miles, with Boston this preseason, could mess up Portland's plan. If he plays in 10 games this season, his $9 million salary goes right back on the Blazers' books.Second, they are going to have to make some difficult choices about a number of their young players. Martell Webster, Channing Frye, Ike Diogu, Sergio Rodriguez and Travis Outlaw can all become free agents, along with veterans Steve Blake and Raef LaFrentz.Because of NBA collective bargaining rules, each player is assigned a "cap hold" that serves as a salary placeholder for the summer. Because Webster, Frye and Diogu were all drafted in the lottery, their cap holds are very high -- likely higher than their actual salaries will be in their new contracts. The only way for Portland to get rid of those cap hold numbers is to sign those players to contracts during the free agent period or to not make qualifying offers to them.If Portland chooses to sign them, not only will those players eat into the cap space, but the team, while working out the new contracts, will lose precious time during the early days of July's free-agent frenzy. If the Blazers choose not to make qualifying offers, those players become unrestricted free agents.So I expect GM Kevin Pritchard to be very proactive (as always) this winter and to move at least a couple of those young players.Chad Ford covers the NBA for ESPN Insider.

The NBA trading frenzy that normally seizes teams come February could be arriving a little early this season.
Assigned to write a column on who could be traded during this season, I was surprised by the number of teams that seemed "open for business" on the trade front.
Typically, significant trades don't go down in preseason, or the first month of the season. It usually isn't until December, with a month or more of games under everyone's belts, that we start hearing the trade drums.
But this year, from the sound of things, the talk may be coming faster and more furiously than in years past.
Why? Two factors seem to be in play.
First, it was a relatively quiet summer as far as trades go. We saw some fireworks on draft night, but after that  for the most part, crickets.
Ron Artest got traded. So did Mo Williams and Marcus Camby. But that's not enough to call it a blockbuster summer.
Second, there were a lot of players dangled in the summer who, for a variety of reasons, didn't get traded. Some -- like Zach Randolph and Jamaal Tinsley -- are very difficult to deal. For others, the timing just wasn't right.
But as we head into the season, there are a number of unstable teams that still appear primed and ready to pull the trigger if the right deal comes along.
Here's a look at 10 or so players (in no particular order) who could be on the move before the February trade deadline:
Marion will be a free agent after the season and he's not happy about it. After he brooded in Phoenix because he wasn't feeling the love financially, the Suns moved him to Miami in a deal for Shaquille O'Neal last season. The problem now is that Marion doesn't appear to have a long-term future in Miami. The team is going through a rebuilding process with Dwyane Wade and rookie Michael Beasley as the cornerstones. Marion, who turns 31 at the end of the season and plays the same position as Beasley, doesn't appear to be a great fit.
He has been dangled to the Lakers and Jazz, and more recently the Heat tried to work out something with the Bulls that would have brought them Ben Gordon and others.
If Marion plays well early in the season, his value will go up for contending teams that need defense, rebounding and athleticism. But I'm not sure how much the Heat will actually be able to get for Marion. As talented as he is, I've yet to come across a GM who wants to give him huge dollars next year.
Boozer has apparently convinced Utah GM Kevin O'Connor that he has no intention of bolting the Jazz for the Heat (or any other team) next summer when he can opt out of his contract.
But I'm not buying it.
There is just too much chatter around the league about Boozer to ignore. Given that the Cavs likewise had reason to believe that Boozer wouldn't leave them high and dry when they let him out of his contract in 2004, only to watch him turn around and sign a huge deal with the Jazz a few weeks later, how sure can O'Connor be that he won't lose Boozer for nothing?
The Jazz should get some interesting offers for Boozer in the next few months. If O'Connor can net another All-Star in return, he'd probably be wise to take the deal and run. Losing Boozer for nothing next summer would be a devastating blow to the team's ability to compete for the title.
Odom played the role of scapegoat for angry Lakers fans after L.A. lost to the Celtics in the Finals. He didn't help his cause by showing up at camp out of shape. And he seemed to dig himself an even bigger hole when he criticized Phil Jackson for suggesting Odom might best help the Lakers by coming off the bench this season. In the past few days, Odom has backtracked and said he'd do what was best for the team, but most in the league think it's only a matter of time before the Lakers find a new home for him.
The team spent some time this summer looking at a few deals, but nothing materialized. Look for the Lakers to restart those talks sooner rather than later. Jackson's triangle offense is notoriously hard for recently acquired players to learn, and given Odom's impending free agency, now seems to be the right time to move him.
A Marion-for-Odom swap might make the most sense for both parties involved, though I've heard there's interest in Odom in quite a few cities, including Cleveland, Chicago, New Jersey, New York and Orlando.
No one was sure what the Nets were thinking when they gave Carter that huge $66 million contract in the summer of 2007. Carter's game was already in decline, and New Jersey's chances of competing for a title looked slim. By midseason, Jason Kidd was gone. Then Richard Jefferson was shipped off on draft night. Now Carter is the only star left on a once-proud franchise. It's clear the Nets are rebuilding and clearing cap space for the summer of 2010. While Carter could provide a stabilizing force on such a young team, I'm not sure owner Bruce Ratner wants to pay Carter an average of $16 million a year to be a mentor on a lottery team.
The most obvious fit for Vince might be in L.A., as the Lakers are looking for a more traditional small forward, and the Nets would love to make a Carter-for-Odom swap that would clear another huge chunk of salary off their books. But his terrible contract is making the Lakers (and everyone else) think twice. If the Lakers aren't interested, the Clippers might be.
A swap of Carter for Cuttino Mobley and Tim Thomas would help the Nets cut costs and give the Clippers a better shot at being competitive. One way or another, expect Nets president Rod Thorn to work his magic and find a good deal, just as he did when he originally acquired Carter.
Many scratched their heads this summer when Chicago GM John Paxson didn't trade Kirk Hinrich after drafting Derrick Rose with the No. 1 pick.
Though I haven't always agreed with Paxson, he was thinking clearly on this one. Had he traded Hinrich, free agent Ben Gordon would've been in a much better negotiating position with the Bulls, knowing they wouldn't want to lose their two key backcourt veterans in the same summer.
But Gordon called his bluff and signed his one-year qualifying offer. Now Paxson has a decision to make.
On one hand, the chances of his losing Gordon next season when he hits unrestricted free agency are high. Gordon hasn't been happy with the way the Bulls have negotiated, and that's probably not going to change. On the other hand, Gordon's contract demands have been fairly outrageous. The reason there was no sign-and-trade talk was that no one in the league wanted to pay Gordon what he was asking. So maybe he won't have as many free-agent suitors as he thinks.
But in any case, it's likely he'll want a change of scenery, and the Bulls sound willing to give it to him (though they can't trade him until Jan. 1). If they do, they'll have to get his consent to any trade, but as long as he's sent to a team with cap room and playing time, I doubt he'd object.
A fired-up Joe Dumars promised to make some moves in Detroit after the Pistons lost in the Eastern Conference finals for the third straight year. But, so far, Dumars has found that his collection of team-oriented players can't bring him back the impact player he hungers for (e.g., a young star like Carmelo Anthony).
The Pistons have experience and talent at every position, and they are deeper than ever. They also have a new head coach, Michael Curry, who has the respect of the players. But should things not go well, you can expect the Pistons to dangle Wallace near the trade deadline. For all of his talent, it's difficult to know which Rasheed will show up on game night. With Wallace's contract set to expire at the end of the season, someone might be willing to give Joe D what he's looking for in exchange for some cap relief next year.
Lee is the most popular player in New York these days. His hustle, athleticism and grittiness have made him a bright spot in the squalor. And with Mike D'Antoni implementing his run-and-gun offense, Lee has looked fantastic in the preseason.
But to keep Lee, who becomes a restricted free agent next summer, the Knicks would have to pay a terrible price, considering that team president Donnie Walsh is trying to clear cap space for the summer of 2010. As the Knicks currently stand, if Walsh signs Lee to a big extension, any hope of having cap space to lure LeBron James goes out the window.
Walsh has tried to move Randolph and/or Eddy Curry instead, but he isn't having any luck. If we get to late January or February and Randolph and Curry are both on the roster, Walsh is going to have to include Lee to sweeten the package. That's a steep price to pay for the mere chance to lure LeBron to New York. But if he caves and pays Lee, the Knicks are basically stuck with the same crappy team until 2011. I don't think Walsh -- or the Knicks' long-suffering fan contingent -- has that much patience.
The Bobcats surprised a lot of people when they drafted point guard D.J. Augustin in the lottery. But the Bobcats had been quietly shopping Felton ever since Larry Brown took over as coach.
While neither Augustin nor Felton has taken over this preseason, the word out of Charlotte is that Augustin, sooner or later, is going to be the point guard in Charlotte. With Felton heading into restricted free agency next summer, look for the Bobcats to get something in return while they can. Felton may never be a superstar, but he's a starting point guard, and those aren't always easy to come by.
Quick quiz: Which two players on the Memphis Grizzlies have the highest salaries? If you guessed Antoine Walker and Darko Milicic, you understand Grizzlies owner Michael Heisley's pain. Memphis is in cost-cutting mode, and Milicic makes too much money for a terrible team. GM Chris Wallace appears to think that Marc Gasol is the long-term answer to the hole in the middle, and coach Marc Iavaroni wasn't a huge Darko fan last season.
So, you may be wondering, why would anyone trade for Darko? The answer might surprise you. A number of GMs are still interested in him. No, he's never going to be a star. But he is an excellent shot-blocker and has only two years left on his contract. The Knicks tried to pry him away as part of a Zach Randolph deal. I think you'll see other GMs make a play this fall and winter.
The Blazers head into the next summer with the potential to have major cap space, with seven players hitting the free-agent market. But there's a catch.
First, Darius Miles, with Boston this preseason, could mess up Portland's plan. If he plays in 10 games this season, his $9 million salary goes right back on the Blazers' books.
Second, they are going to have to make some difficult choices about a number of their young players. Martell Webster, Channing Frye, Ike Diogu, Sergio Rodriguez and Travis Outlaw can all become free agents, along with veterans Steve Blake and Raef LaFrentz.
Because of NBA collective bargaining rules, each player is assigned a "cap hold" that serves as a salary placeholder for the summer. Because Webster, Frye and Diogu were all drafted in the lottery, their cap holds are very high -- likely higher than their actual salaries will be in their new contracts. The only way for Portland to get rid of those cap hold numbers is to sign those players to contracts during the free agent period or to not make qualifying offers to them.
If Portland chooses to sign them, not only will those players eat into the cap space, but the team, while working out the new contracts, will lose precious time during the early days of July's free-agent frenzy. If the Blazers choose not to make qualifying offers, those players become unrestricted free agents.
So I expect GM Kevin Pritchard to be very proactive (as always) this winter and to move at least a couple of those young players.
Chad Ford covers the NBA for ESPN Insider.

The player efficiency rating (PER) is a rating of a player's per-minute productivity.
To generate PER, I created formulas -- outlined in tortuous detail in my book "Pro Basketball Forecast" -- that return a value for each of a player's accomplishments. That includes positive accomplishments such as field goals, free throws, 3-pointers, assists, rebounds, blocks and steals, and negative ones such as missed shots, turnovers and personal fouls.
Two important things to remember about PER are that it's per-minute and is pace-adjusted.
Because it's a per-minute measure, it allows us to compare, say, Steve Blake and Derek Fisher, even though there is a disparity in their minutes played.
I also adjust each player's rating for his team's pace, so that players on a slow-paced team like Detroit aren't penalized just because their team has fewer possessions than a fast-paced team such as Golden State.
Bear in mind that PER is not the final, once-and-for-all evaluation of a player's accomplishments during the season. This is especially true for defensive specialists -- such as Quinton Ross and Jason Collins -- who don't get many blocks or steals.
What PER can do, however, is summarize a player's statistical accomplishments in a single number. That allows us to unify the disparate data on each player we try to track in our heads (e.g., Corey Maggette: free-throw machine, good rebounder, decent shooter, poor passer, etc.) so that we can move on to evaluating what might be missing from the stats.
I set the league average in PER to 15.00 every season.
Among players with at least 500 minutes in 2010-11, the highest rating was LeBron James' 27.34. The lowest was Stephen Graham's 4.41.
For the most updated PER rankings league-wide, click here.
John Hollinger writes for ESPN Insider. To e-mail him, click here.

A career 52.5 percent free-throw shooter, Shaq is up to a less gruesome 58.7 percent this season.Nathaniel S. Butler/Getty ImagesClang! Doink! Boing! Rat-a-tat-tat!It's been an amazing career for Shaquille O'Neal in most respects, but hanging over it is the specter of his greatest weakness -- free-throw shooting. The Big Brick has made only 52.5 percent of his career attempts, the second-worst percentage among those who have attempted 5,000 free throws or more, and rivaling Wilt Chamberlain (51.1 percent) for the cellar. Oddly, he has become worse with age, missing more than half his shots for five straight seasons before squeaking by at 51.3 percent a season ago.Shaq's tragic flaw will loom a little larger in the coming days, because he's closing in on an amazing milestone. With eight more misses, he'll become just the second player in history to miss 5,000 free throws; at his 2008-09 rate of 2.7 misses per game he'll hit the mark in his next three games -- perhaps even on Christmas Day against San Antonio and coach Gregg Popovich, who has a penchant for the Hack-a-Shaq strategy. Only Wilt Chamberlain has bricked more, and he played in the turbo-charged '60s when the pace was much, much faster than it is today (see chart).Mind you, this only includes regular-season games. In the playoffs, Shaq has bricked another 1,131 free throws, more than doubling every other player in history except Chamberlain. Despite his claim that he makes them when they count, he's actually significantly worse in the postseason (50.1 percent) than the regular season (58.1 percent) -- the low point came when he helped Miami to its only title despite shooting 37.4 percent during the playoffs.To put 5,000 missed foul shots in perspective, consider that it's nearly 50 percent more than any other player in history save for Chamberlain. The next player on the list, Karl Malone, went to the line more often than any other player in history but is 1,591 misses behind Shaq; to miss 5,000, he would have had to shoot 62.1 percent instead of his 74.2 percent career mark.Or consider that Shaq has missed more free throws than Hall of Fame center Bob Lanier attempted, and also is closing in on inductees Bob McAdoo, Nate Thurmond, Bill Russell and Robert Parish. With reasonable health, he'll catch all of them by the time his contract expires at the end of next season.So in tribute to Shaq's 5K milestone, and with a big assist from the ESPN Research team, let's tackle our own big 5 -- the five biggest questions on Shaq's free throws:1. Anyone else who might miss 5,000?To hit 5,000 requires a confluence of two skills at historic levels -- the ability to get to the line, and the inability to convert once there. A player needs to miss more than 300 free throws a season to get there within the time frame of a reasonably long NBA career; that, in turn, requires him to get to the line at least eight times a game, since even the worst foul shooters in history make about half their attempts.Eight attempts per game is an amazingly high standard -- only nine players average that many this season, and they would have to keep it up for another 15 years or so before they would have enough attempts to rival Shaq.Nonetheless, at least two players have enough going their way in terms of attempts, misses and youth that they could plausibly catch Shaq in free-throw misses.The first is an obvious one: Dwight Howard. The imposing Orlando center has already misfired 1,142 times, and at just 23 he has plenty of time left to get the remainder. He's making up ground fast, too, by missing 5.0 free throws per game this year.At that rate, he'll shatter Shaq's mark, not to mention Chamberlain's. Howard would hit the 5,000 plateau by the time he was 32, and presumably have several years of wayward shooting left to pursue greater heights.Of course, the key phrase is "at that rate." Howard needs to continue both drawing foul shots and missing them at a prodigious rate in order to move up the charts. It's possible, especially considering that his free-throw-attempt rate has gone up every year while his marksmanship has stayed in the high 50s, but if Howard pulls a Malone and gets better from the stripe with age, he'll fall well short.Howard's example makes it seem easy, but to show how hard it would be to get to 5,000 misses for most players, consider LeBron James. He gets to the line more than almost anybody else, averaging more than 10 foul shots a game last season, and is one of the game's least accurate stars at 73.3 percent for his career; additionally, he started playing at 18 and has time on his side in a major way in terms of pursuing career records.Even so, at his rate of the past two seasons, James wouldn't clear the 5,000-miss mark until he was 42 years old. And if his early-season improvement to 79.6 percent from the line this year holds up, you can kiss even those slim odds goodbye.2. All-time team of players with fewer than 5,000 FTAs?The example above dovetails into another discussion of what an amazing feat it is to miss 5,000 foul shots -- namely, that most players don't even attempt 5,000, much less brick that many. Combining NBA and ABA history, only 68 players have attempted 5,000 free throws. Dikembe Mutombo, for instance, has played 17 years and is still 49 short.While several active players will add to that list in due time -- such as Howard and James above -- you can make a pretty awesome All-Star team just from the players with fewer free-throw attempts than Shaq has missed.In fact, let's do that:Point guard: Anybody from Phoenix. That list includes two-time MVP Steve Nash (2,488 attempts; at 34, in no danger of reaching 5,000), fast-break phenom Jason Kidd (3,621 and adding slowly) and penetrator extraordinaire Kevin Johnson (4,691). (Side note: Do you realize that if you live in Sacramento right now your government chain of command is Kevin Johnson-Arnold Schwarzenegger? Is that just a little surreal?)Of course, taking the Phoenix trio means that we must exclude the all-Knicks backcourt of Walt Frazier (4,226) and Earl Monroe (4,513), not to mention the incomparable Gary Payton (4,480). That list already gives us at least five point guards who are either in the Hall of Fame or will be there soon, and we're barely scratching the surface of candidates for this "honor."Shooting guard: Scottie Pippen. Pip didn't see much time at this position during his heyday because the Bulls already had a pretty fair shooting guard, but since my team is already stacked at small forward (as you'll see in a minute), I have the luxury of moving the versatile Pippen to the 2.The greatest second banana in league history had 4,437 trips to the stripe, even after a decade and a half as one of the game's premier slashers. But if you'd rather have the best player from a team that won it all at this position, we can always throw a little love to forlorn Seattle in the form of Dennis Johnson (4,754). Or we can go the other way and throw in a great scorer like Pistol Pete Maravich (4,344), or throw a bone to the old-timers with "50 Greatest" selection Bill Sharman from the old Celtics (3,559) or 1958 scoring champ George Yardley (3,434).Yet this is one of the weak spots in the lineup -- it's one of the two spots where we don't have a multiple MVP winner taking the floor.Small forward: Larry Bird. A three-time MVP and, obviously, one of the greatest players of all time, Bird nonetheless attempted only 4,471 free throws in his career. Actually, we have four of the top seven players in the 1984 scoring race represented here -- fellow Eastern Conference executive Kiki Vandeweghe finished his career with 3,997 tries, while Bernard King (3,972) and Mark Aguirre (4,944) also fell short. Between them, those four had seven top-three seasons in the scoring race and 15 seasons averaging 25 points or more  but none of them topped 5,000 free-throw attempts, and only Aguirre came very close.Power forward: Kevin McHale. Before he was in charge of ruining the Wolves, McHale was the league's most feared 4 in the low post. But all those corkscrewing up-and-unders still produced only 4,554 free-throw attempts, a meager total next to Shaq's mighty sum. Moving out on the court, the best high-post player of his era, Chris Webber, didn't get there either (3,906), nor did gritty Hall of Famer Dave DeBusschere (3,730) and high-flying inductee James Worthy (3,184).Center: George Mikan. That's right -- Shaq's 5,000 free-throw-miss feat is so rare that even the Shaq of his era, Mikan, couldn't get to the line for 5,000 attempts, much less miss that many. The original Lakers center finished with 3,924.If you'd like to put an asterisk next to that number, given how Mikan beat a hasty retreat into retirement at age 30, we'll just have to make do with another all-time great. Like, say, Willis Reed. The two-time Finals MVP and one-time regular-season winner retired early, yes, but with just 3,298 free-throw attempts, he wasn't a threat to hit the 5,000 mark anyway.Over the years, Shaq has to deal with those who really embrace the whole Hack-a-Shaq thing.AP Photo/Greg Wahl-Stephens3. How does Shaq's feat compare to Wilt's?It's a lot more impressive, actually.We can show this a couple of different ways. For starters, Wilt stayed on the court virtually the entire game, averaging 45.8 minutes a contest for his career -- far more than Shaq's 36.0. As a result, he has played nearly 10,000 minutes more than Shaq even though he's been in fewer career games.Additionally, Chamberlain's era was much faster-paced than Shaq's, as mentioned above; teams in the 1960s routinely played games in the 120s, even without 3-pointers and with lower shooting percentages. Comparing apples to apples then, on a per-possession basis Shaq has been a far more prolific free-throw mason than Chamberlain.Indeed, even with those disadvantages in pace and minutes he might eventually pass Wilt. O'Neal is 813 misses behind Chamberlain's record and is piling up misses at a rate of about 200 a season. Should that rate hold up, he'll surpass Chamberlain in 2012, when he's 40. To do so, he'd need to play three more seasons after his current contract ends -- unlikely, perhaps, but not impossible either.4. How much damage have the bricks done?On one level, you could argue that Shaq's career should be massively different. Per season, free-throw misses deducted nine points from Shaq's regular season player efficiency rating -- which means his already-gilded 27.1 career PER would be a phenomenal, stomping-everyone-including-Jordan 36.1.Of course, that logic relies on a completely unrealistic assumption, because it's presuming that he'd make all his foul shots.Instead, let's imagine a more likely scenario. Suppose Shaq had slowly improved so that by the midpoint of his career he was a 70 percent shooter from the stripe. That's reasonable for an NBA center, especially a big low-post center like Shaq.(By the way, if Shaq were a better shooter, it's likely his game would be fundamentally different in a great many ways -- he'd be stepping out, hitting jumpers from the high post, etc. -- that might or might not be good for his overall production.)Had that happened, his career mark would end up three-quarters of the way between 70 percent and the 55.3 percent combined he shot in his first two seasons, which would be 66.3 percent. That would certainly be helpful, adding nearly three points to his career PER and putting his career mark close to the exalted 30 mark.However, it's not clear that his outcomes would have changed much. The gain would have been concentrated on the tail portion of his career, especially the seven-year stretch between 2000 and 2006 when his teams won four titles and were serious contenders the other three years. But in two of those three seasons, his team was handled fairly easily when it was eliminated -- the only one in which you can imagine the outcome being different is in 2005, when his Heat lost narrowly to Detroit in a seventh game.So perhaps he would have won five titles instead of four. Maybe he would have had another Most Valuable Player award. But in the big picture, it's hard to see that Shaq has lost much from being a lousy foul shooter.In The Bonus  More fun with 5,000A few more Big Cactus points: Shaq's teammate Nash has missed 253 free throws in his 883 NBA games. At that rate, it would take him 17,451 games to miss 5,000. If he played every regular-season game for 200 seasons, he'd still fall short. Entering Dec. 19, the top 12 FT% shooters had missed a combined 4,995 free throws in 45,076 attempts (see chart). If Larry Bird were to come out of retirement and miss his next 3,000 free-throw attempts (which would require him to shoot 0 percent for about seven seasons, based on his peak season of 492 free-throw attempts), he'd still have a higher career free-throw percentage than Shaq. Shaq is currently 10th on the all-time scoring list; if he had missed only 4,000 free throws (corresponding to just 62 percent shooting), he'd be fifth.John Hollinger writes for ESPN Insider. To e-mail him, click here.ESPN researchers Lisa Brooks, Mark Simon and Matt Willis contributed to this article.

Clang! Doink! Boing! Rat-a-tat-tat!
It's been an amazing career for Shaquille O'Neal in most respects, but hanging over it is the specter of his greatest weakness -- free-throw shooting. The Big Brick has made only 52.5 percent of his career attempts, the second-worst percentage among those who have attempted 5,000 free throws or more, and rivaling Wilt Chamberlain (51.1 percent) for the cellar. Oddly, he has become worse with age, missing more than half his shots for five straight seasons before squeaking by at 51.3 percent a season ago.
Shaq's tragic flaw will loom a little larger in the coming days, because he's closing in on an amazing milestone. With eight more misses, he'll become just the second player in history to miss 5,000 free throws; at his 2008-09 rate of 2.7 misses per game he'll hit the mark in his next three games -- perhaps even on Christmas Day against San Antonio and coach Gregg Popovich, who has a penchant for the Hack-a-Shaq strategy. Only Wilt Chamberlain has bricked more, and he played in the turbo-charged '60s when the pace was much, much faster than it is today (see chart).
Mind you, this only includes regular-season games. In the playoffs, Shaq has bricked another 1,131 free throws, more than doubling every other player in history except Chamberlain. Despite his claim that he makes them when they count, he's actually significantly worse in the postseason (50.1 percent) than the regular season (58.1 percent) -- the low point came when he helped Miami to its only title despite shooting 37.4 percent during the playoffs.
To put 5,000 missed foul shots in perspective, consider that it's nearly 50 percent more than any other player in history save for Chamberlain. The next player on the list, Karl Malone, went to the line more often than any other player in history but is 1,591 misses behind Shaq; to miss 5,000, he would have had to shoot 62.1 percent instead of his 74.2 percent career mark.
Or consider that Shaq has missed more free throws than Hall of Fame center Bob Lanier attempted, and also is closing in on inductees Bob McAdoo, Nate Thurmond, Bill Russell and Robert Parish. With reasonable health, he'll catch all of them by the time his contract expires at the end of next season.
So in tribute to Shaq's 5K milestone, and with a big assist from the ESPN Research team, let's tackle our own big 5 -- the five biggest questions on Shaq's free throws:
To hit 5,000 requires a confluence of two skills at historic levels -- the ability to get to the line, and the inability to convert once there. A player needs to miss more than 300 free throws a season to get there within the time frame of a reasonably long NBA career; that, in turn, requires him to get to the line at least eight times a game, since even the worst foul shooters in history make about half their attempts.
Eight attempts per game is an amazingly high standard -- only nine players average that many this season, and they would have to keep it up for another 15 years or so before they would have enough attempts to rival Shaq.
Nonetheless, at least two players have enough going their way in terms of attempts, misses and youth that they could plausibly catch Shaq in free-throw misses.
The first is an obvious one: Dwight Howard. The imposing Orlando center has already misfired 1,142 times, and at just 23 he has plenty of time left to get the remainder. He's making up ground fast, too, by missing 5.0 free throws per game this year.
At that rate, he'll shatter Shaq's mark, not to mention Chamberlain's. Howard would hit the 5,000 plateau by the time he was 32, and presumably have several years of wayward shooting left to pursue greater heights.
Of course, the key phrase is "at that rate." Howard needs to continue both drawing foul shots and missing them at a prodigious rate in order to move up the charts. It's possible, especially considering that his free-throw-attempt rate has gone up every year while his marksmanship has stayed in the high 50s, but if Howard pulls a Malone and gets better from the stripe with age, he'll fall well short.
Howard's example makes it seem easy, but to show how hard it would be to get to 5,000 misses for most players, consider LeBron James. He gets to the line more than almost anybody else, averaging more than 10 foul shots a game last season, and is one of the game's least accurate stars at 73.3 percent for his career; additionally, he started playing at 18 and has time on his side in a major way in terms of pursuing career records.
Even so, at his rate of the past two seasons, James wouldn't clear the 5,000-miss mark until he was 42 years old. And if his early-season improvement to 79.6 percent from the line this year holds up, you can kiss even those slim odds goodbye.
The example above dovetails into another discussion of what an amazing feat it is to miss 5,000 foul shots -- namely, that most players don't even attempt 5,000, much less brick that many. Combining NBA and ABA history, only 68 players have attempted 5,000 free throws. Dikembe Mutombo, for instance, has played 17 years and is still 49 short.
While several active players will add to that list in due time -- such as Howard and James above -- you can make a pretty awesome All-Star team just from the players with fewer free-throw attempts than Shaq has missed.
In fact, let's do that:
Point guard: Anybody from Phoenix. That list includes two-time MVP Steve Nash (2,488 attempts; at 34, in no danger of reaching 5,000), fast-break phenom Jason Kidd (3,621 and adding slowly) and penetrator extraordinaire Kevin Johnson (4,691). (Side note: Do you realize that if you live in Sacramento right now your government chain of command is Kevin Johnson-Arnold Schwarzenegger? Is that just a little surreal?)
Of course, taking the Phoenix trio means that we must exclude the all-Knicks backcourt of Walt Frazier (4,226) and Earl Monroe (4,513), not to mention the incomparable Gary Payton (4,480). That list already gives us at least five point guards who are either in the Hall of Fame or will be there soon, and we're barely scratching the surface of candidates for this "honor."
Shooting guard: Scottie Pippen. Pip didn't see much time at this position during his heyday because the Bulls already had a pretty fair shooting guard, but since my team is already stacked at small forward (as you'll see in a minute), I have the luxury of moving the versatile Pippen to the 2.
The greatest second banana in league history had 4,437 trips to the stripe, even after a decade and a half as one of the game's premier slashers. But if you'd rather have the best player from a team that won it all at this position, we can always throw a little love to forlorn Seattle in the form of Dennis Johnson (4,754). Or we can go the other way and throw in a great scorer like Pistol Pete Maravich (4,344), or throw a bone to the old-timers with "50 Greatest" selection Bill Sharman from the old Celtics (3,559) or 1958 scoring champ George Yardley (3,434).
Yet this is one of the weak spots in the lineup -- it's one of the two spots where we don't have a multiple MVP winner taking the floor.
Small forward: Larry Bird. A three-time MVP and, obviously, one of the greatest players of all time, Bird nonetheless attempted only 4,471 free throws in his career. Actually, we have four of the top seven players in the 1984 scoring race represented here -- fellow Eastern Conference executive Kiki Vandeweghe finished his career with 3,997 tries, while Bernard King (3,972) and Mark Aguirre (4,944) also fell short. Between them, those four had seven top-three seasons in the scoring race and 15 seasons averaging 25 points or more  but none of them topped 5,000 free-throw attempts, and only Aguirre came very close.
Power forward: Kevin McHale. Before he was in charge of ruining the Wolves, McHale was the league's most feared 4 in the low post. But all those corkscrewing up-and-unders still produced only 4,554 free-throw attempts, a meager total next to Shaq's mighty sum. Moving out on the court, the best high-post player of his era, Chris Webber, didn't get there either (3,906), nor did gritty Hall of Famer Dave DeBusschere (3,730) and high-flying inductee James Worthy (3,184).
Center: George Mikan. That's right -- Shaq's 5,000 free-throw-miss feat is so rare that even the Shaq of his era, Mikan, couldn't get to the line for 5,000 attempts, much less miss that many. The original Lakers center finished with 3,924.
If you'd like to put an asterisk next to that number, given how Mikan beat a hasty retreat into retirement at age 30, we'll just have to make do with another all-time great. Like, say, Willis Reed. The two-time Finals MVP and one-time regular-season winner retired early, yes, but with just 3,298 free-throw attempts, he wasn't a threat to hit the 5,000 mark anyway.
It's a lot more impressive, actually.
We can show this a couple of different ways. For starters, Wilt stayed on the court virtually the entire game, averaging 45.8 minutes a contest for his career -- far more than Shaq's 36.0. As a result, he has played nearly 10,000 minutes more than Shaq even though he's been in fewer career games.
Additionally, Chamberlain's era was much faster-paced than Shaq's, as mentioned above; teams in the 1960s routinely played games in the 120s, even without 3-pointers and with lower shooting percentages. Comparing apples to apples then, on a per-possession basis Shaq has been a far more prolific free-throw mason than Chamberlain.
Indeed, even with those disadvantages in pace and minutes he might eventually pass Wilt. O'Neal is 813 misses behind Chamberlain's record and is piling up misses at a rate of about 200 a season. Should that rate hold up, he'll surpass Chamberlain in 2012, when he's 40. To do so, he'd need to play three more seasons after his current contract ends -- unlikely, perhaps, but not impossible either.
On one level, you could argue that Shaq's career should be massively different. Per season, free-throw misses deducted nine points from Shaq's regular season player efficiency rating -- which means his already-gilded 27.1 career PER would be a phenomenal, stomping-everyone-including-Jordan 36.1.
Of course, that logic relies on a completely unrealistic assumption, because it's presuming that he'd make all his foul shots.
Instead, let's imagine a more likely scenario. Suppose Shaq had slowly improved so that by the midpoint of his career he was a 70 percent shooter from the stripe. That's reasonable for an NBA center, especially a big low-post center like Shaq.
(By the way, if Shaq were a better shooter, it's likely his game would be fundamentally different in a great many ways -- he'd be stepping out, hitting jumpers from the high post, etc. -- that might or might not be good for his overall production.)
Had that happened, his career mark would end up three-quarters of the way between 70 percent and the 55.3 percent combined he shot in his first two seasons, which would be 66.3 percent. That would certainly be helpful, adding nearly three points to his career PER and putting his career mark close to the exalted 30 mark.
However, it's not clear that his outcomes would have changed much. The gain would have been concentrated on the tail portion of his career, especially the seven-year stretch between 2000 and 2006 when his teams won four titles and were serious contenders the other three years. But in two of those three seasons, his team was handled fairly easily when it was eliminated -- the only one in which you can imagine the outcome being different is in 2005, when his Heat lost narrowly to Detroit in a seventh game.
So perhaps he would have won five titles instead of four. Maybe he would have had another Most Valuable Player award. But in the big picture, it's hard to see that Shaq has lost much from being a lousy foul shooter.
A few more Big Cactus points:
 Shaq's teammate Nash has missed 253 free throws in his 883 NBA games. At that rate, it would take him 17,451 games to miss 5,000. If he played every regular-season game for 200 seasons, he'd still fall short.
 Entering Dec. 19, the top 12 FT% shooters had missed a combined 4,995 free throws in 45,076 attempts (see chart).
 If Larry Bird were to come out of retirement and miss his next 3,000 free-throw attempts (which would require him to shoot 0 percent for about seven seasons, based on his peak season of 492 free-throw attempts), he'd still have a higher career free-throw percentage than Shaq.
 Shaq is currently 10th on the all-time scoring list; if he had missed only 4,000 free throws (corresponding to just 62 percent shooting), he'd be fifth.
John Hollinger writes for ESPN Insider. To e-mail him, click here.
ESPN researchers Lisa Brooks, Mark Simon and Matt Willis contributed to this article.

Though it seems like two decades ago now, I remember Howard Schultz five years ago, the day he purchased the Seattle SuperSonics from Barry Ackerley.
He was a different man then, happy, vivacious and endlessly optimistic as he proudly towed around his younger brother, who was there to appreciate what a poor kid from the Brooklyn projects could accomplish. He spoke eloquently of his new acquisition as a public trust and fantasized about changing the culture of a league that presents a wide chasm between its players and its fans.
On Tuesday, when Schultz sold the Sonics to an investment group from Oklahoma City, for all intents and purposes ending the legacy of the city's first professional sports franchise, he could not have been further from that energetic dreamer whose power of persuasion makes you actually believe he can achieve the impossible.
He had become angry, bitter and maddeningly defiant, like a petulant child who decided to take his toy and go home. Only, in this case, he quite obviously threw his toy down a drainage ditch and stalked home while boldly misrepresenting the truth, telling everybody they could still play with the toy.
There is a scene in the movie "The Talented Mr. Ripley" in which the characters of Matt Damon and Gwyneth Paltrow sit on a sailboat in the Mediterranean Sea and analyze why their relationships with Jude Law's character had changed so dramatically.
Paltrow explains that Law's character is the kind of person who can focus his attention solely on you, make you feel as if you are the center of the universe and nothing could be more important to him. And then he gets bored, the attention goes away and the person feels empty, vacant and confused, wondering what he or she did wrong to elicit such treatment.
That, in a nutshell, is Howard Schultz, an entrepreneur whose romantic attention was focused exclusively on his basketball team for about a year. Then things didn't quite go the way he envisioned, he got bored and discouraged, and he decided that he wanted out (regardless of the impact on people's lives).
How and why he became frustrated and changed irrevocably was not one thing, but a series of events that soured him on the NBA product.
It started with Gary Payton, for whom Schultz felt an immediate disdain. Schultz thought Payton was selfish and self-absorbed and that the people with whom he surrounded himself were unethical. When Payton failed to show up on the first day of training camp in 2002 to make a point, it sealed his fate: Schultz was going to trade Payton.
To do so, he found out, he also had to trade Desmond Mason, a player who had become like a son to Schultz, who embodied the qualities that Schultz saw in the consummate NBA player, a man Schultz said repeatedly would be a cornerstone of the franchise's future.
Schultz ultimately decided he disliked Payton more than he liked Mason, and so, like Abraham, he was willing to sacrifice his son. It was the beginning of the downward spiral.
It took a deeper turn that summer, when the team became embroiled in contract negotiations with Rashard Lewis, who up until that point had always been a model citizen, quiet, respectful and professional.
Schultz accompanied a Sonics negotiating team to Texas to meet with Lewis, his mother and his agents. When the sides sat down, Lewis had a baseball cap pulled down over his eyes. He never looked at Schultz and never spoke, something that Schultz took as a personal affront and a sign of disrespect.
"In my business, that's not how we do things," Schultz would later say, referring to the like-minded negotiations he regularly undertakes as the head of Starbucks.
Though the contract was ultimately resolved, Schultz never forgot that initial meeting, and he never really forgave Lewis for how the entire negotiating process was handled.
That season, Schultz attended a Sonics game in Phoenix. As he watched courtside, Lewis had the opportunity to seal a game with free throws in the final seconds. Lewis missed both, the Sonics lost the game, and the contempt Schultz felt for Lewis then was visibly palpable.
It was not difficult to decipher that Schultz was thinking, "That guy had the guts to demand more than $60 million and he can't even hit two free throws? What kind of business did I get myself into where I am forced to pay a 25-year-old kid that kind of money and then watch him fail to produce? Worse, he doesn't even seem to care."
As the losses mounted, so did Schultz's residual bitterness, to the point where his courtside jumping jacks soon became slouches, almost to the extent that he was virtually lying supine in a folding chair. His wife noticed, the fans noticed and his players certainly noticed, to the point that they commented about the negative impact it had on their energy and their psyche.
If those things served to sour Schultz on the NBA, it also laid the foundation for what led to his decision to sell the team: his dealings with the city of Seattle and the state of Washington concerning a new or renovated arena.
This is where Schultz's Starbucks experience ultimately backfired. Though the company has a board of directors and Schultz says he is the head of global expansion, Starbucks is Schultz's fiefdom. What Howard wants, Howard gets. He has ruled it by instinct, and he has been wildly successful.
Schultz apparently thought that when he requested public funds for a new arena, politicians and fans were going to acquiesce to the power and intelligence of Schultz with no reservations, in the same manner that his Starbucks employees are required to obey his commands.
After all, the city had given the Mariners and Seahawks new stadiums. Schultz's endeavor was losing money, and it deserved to be bailed out as well.
When he did not get cooperation from the city or the state, he was aghast. When politicians suggested the Sonics did not mean as much to the area as Schultz thought they did, he was horrified. And when the public said they did not want to help billionaire owners get out of their own bad investment, he was nonplussed.
Four days before the Seahawks were going to play in the Super Bowl, Schultz made a major public-relations blunder by threatening to move or sell the team if his demands were not met, not only detracting from the feel-good story of the city's long-embattled football team but looking like a spoiled brat at the same time: "What do you mean I can't have what I want?"
When the state legislature rejected Schultz's demands for public subsidies in February, that was the tipping point for Schultz; he was going to sell the team.
The organization said it would explore all options for getting a new arena, but in reality it did not. It still has not tried to pair with Bellevue, a Seattle suburb, and approach the state legislature. It never said it would increase its own contribution to the project. In fact, it ignored three proposals recently submitted by the city of Seattle for a renovation.
Basically, Schultz wanted out. His investment -- an expensive toy -- was not what he thought it would be. He could not change the attitudes of NBA players. He could not get the fan base to support his team the way Europeans support their soccer teams. He was unable to persuade politicos to bail him out of his financial morass.
In short, he failed. Yet he is not willing to admit it. There are scapegoats at his disposal, somebody or something to whom he can shift the blame and justify his decision: the city council, the state legislature, the public.
Not everybody in the Sonics' ownership group wanted to sell the team. They wanted to see it through until the end, explore every option. But Schultz put this thing together, and he wielded the power to tear it apart. And the fact that his decision means the very organization that he was going to make the model NBA franchise is now going to leave town (count on it) meant absolutely nothing to him.
In fact, at the news conference announcing the sale, he almost seemed to revel defiantly in the one-upsmanship: "See, I told you if you didn't give me what I wanted, I would move or sell the team."
On that day in 2001 when Schultz purchased the team, he spoke of his memories of going to Knicks games in the Garden when he was a kid, sitting in the upper reaches of the grand old arena with his late father, a sympathetic figure throughout his life.
Back then, his father would have been proud of him. I wonder what he would think of him now.
Frank Hughes covers the NBA for The News Tribune of Tacoma, Wash.

Here it is, the second week in December, and the Toronto Raptors are the topic du jour. Vince Carter isn't hurt. The franchise isn't moving. Lenny Wilkens isn't coming through that door anymore (thank goodness.)
The Raptors are on today's agenda because they are the hottest team in the Eastern Conference, a remarkable transformation that can be traced directly to the Dec. 1 deal with the Chicago Bulls. Following Tuesday night's win in Cleveland, the Raps are now 5-0 since Chicago general manager John Paxson generously agreed to resuscitate a team that was, well, deathly. Too bad he did it at the expense of the team he's paid to oversee. But that's another story for another day.
Prior to the deal, the Raptors were, arguably, the most difficult team to watch in the NBA, the league equivalent of a "Fear Factor" Marathon. They couldn't score. They couldn't win. The only positive was that Vince was still healthy.
Then, life as the Raptors know it changed and changed in a hurry. This was a team that had six games of fewer than 70 points, including one hideous, 56-point submission against Minnesota. Toronto was dead last in scoring in a league where no one scores. They were Princeton without the flash.
Now? Now they're Loyola Marymount. They've gone Westheadian on all of us since Jalen Rose, Donyell Marshall and Lonny Baxter passed through customs. In the five games since the trade, they've scored 500 points. They've hit the century mark in three of those games. Their lowest outing: a 92-point drought against Atlanta.
In the first 16 games of the season, now to be known as coach Kevin O'Neill's Wilderness Month, the Raptors reached 92 points only twice -- both times in overtime. They reached 100 points only once -- in overtime against the Rockets. There was Carter and there was, well, Carter. They were slogging along at .500 in a conference where .500 gets you home-court advantage, but their games amounted to eye pollution.
"A lot of those (low-scoring losses) were on the second night of back-to-back games," O'Neill said. "We just didn't have enough depth. It was going to be very difficult in those situations unless we made the trade. To think about it now, to go 8-8 with what we had was pretty much holding down the fort. It was pretty tough to watch."
And now?
"Hey, if we can average 100 points, I think we'll win a few games," O'Neill cracked. Yeah, like all of them.
By far the biggest impact is that of Rose, now with his fourth NBA team. Throughout his career, Rose has been telling anyone who'd listen that he could play point guard and play it well. But in his last two stops, Indiana and Chicago, someone else was always there. O'Neill wasted no time giving Rose the rock and telling him to be the man.
"He's cool, calm and just wants to win," Carter said of his new teammate. "I think it has rejuvenated him as far as just being the player that he really is. With this team, he gets to show his ability to score and to make plays for other guys."
The results: two 10-assist games in the first four games. An average of 7.8 assists a game since the trade, more than double what he averaged in Chicago and, by far, the highest average of Rose's career.
"I knew Jalen could play the point," O'Neill said. "I just didn't know how good a point guard Jalen was. He has been terrific."
The Raptors are averaging 24.6 assists in the winning streak. Prior to that, they were lucky to get 24 assists in a week. Actually, they were averaging 18 assists before the deal. But you get the picture.
They've won in a variety of fashions, which, needless to say, also includes playing good defense down the stretch. But they bombarded the Celtics with 17 3-pointers (the Celtics now know what last year felt like to a lot of their opponents) and the streak has been bookended by wins on the road, a Raptors rarity before the deal.
"I think the thing that impresses me is that we're not a front-running team. What I mean by that is we have found different ways to win during this winning streak," Rose said. "We've done it by sharing the ball, we've done it with 3-point shooting, we've done it by coming from behind, we've done it on the road and we've shown resiliency. Hopefully, we can find a way to continue that."
By installing Rose as his point guard, O'Neill was able to slide the others into more natural, comfortable positions. Alvin Williams, never a true point guard, moved to shooting guard while Carter is now the small forward. Marshall, who has a 20-and-10 itch to scratch almost every time he steps onto the floor, is at the power forward spot and rookie Chris Bosh starts at center. O'Neill also likes the fact that Morris Peterson can now be the team's sixth man, a role he thinks suits Peterson better than starting.
Marshall, by the way, has had 20 or more points in four of the wins and no fewer than seven rebounds in any of the five games. He had five 3-pointers against the Celtics. And, by playing power forward, Marshall allows No. 1 pick Bosh to move to center, the spot vacated by Antonio Davis.
The rook is playing as well as any of the other single-named phenoms taken ahead of him. Since the trade, Bosh has averaged 14.6 points, 9.8 rebounds and 1.4 blocks in 37.4 minutes. Included in that was a where-did-that-come-from, 22-point, 16-rebound submission against height-challenged Seattle.
O'Neill said he had no worries about replacing the bigger, more savvy Davis with the untested Bosh. As the coach bluntly put it, "I already had seen enough."
"Chris can play either (power forward or center) position. He's an excellent shot-blocker. He rebounds, he's smart and he plays very hard," O'Neill added. "Across the board, I don't think there's any rookie playing better than him."
Sure, the season is barely one-fourth gone. But after what we saw of Toronto after 16 games, we figured there'd be 14 other Eastern Conference teams more interesting and definitely easier on the eyes. In one fell swoop, that has all changed. Raptors and relevant can now be used in the same sentence without an accompanying laugh track.
Peter May, who covers the NBA for the Boston Globe, is a regular contributor to ESPN.com.

Disgraced NBA referee Tim Donaghy admitted in federal court in Brooklyn, N.Y., on Wednesday that he sold inside information to professional gamblers seeking to score on NBA games. Donaghy's plea of guilty to two felonies and the continuing investigation into gambling on NBA games raise numerous questions. Here are some of the questions and their answers:
What exactly has Donaghy admitted?
In court papers and in interviews with the FBI, Donaghy has admitted that he began gambling four years ago in violation of NBA rules. Although his plea in court Wednesday didn't include an admission that his bets during those four years included NBA games, the charges against him as outlined in court documents say that he did, and that he bet on games he officiated. He apparently did not do well on his bets. He admits that in December 2006, in an effort to supplement his income, he began delivering inside information on NBA players, referees and coaches to James ("Sheep") Battista, a professional gambler who attended the same high school (Cardinal O'Hara High in Springfield, Pa.) as Donaghy, although they were two years apart. When Donaghy's information proved to be correct and Battista won his bets, Donaghy collected $2,000. Donaghy's information must have been good because Battista soon started paying $5,000 for each winner.
What proof does the FBI have of Donaghy's chicanery?
Donaghy made literally hundreds of cell phone calls to place his bets and convey information to Battista. Most of the calls went to a Battista messenger, Thomas Martino. The FBI has the phone records of all three men and can show the pattern of calls just before games began and bets were placed. The evidence on Donaghy is similar to the phone records that proved Pete Rose was betting on baseball games when he managed the Reds in 1987 and that led to his lifetime ban from the sport. In addition to the phone records, the FBI can show cash payments made to Donaghy when his information led to winning bets.
Did Donaghy's gambling and his work for Battista affect the outcomes of NBA games?
Yes. Maybe not always by determining the winner and the loser, but the FBI agents who investigated Donaghy concluded that Donaghy "compromised [his] objectivity as a referee because of [his] personal financial interest in the outcome of NBA games." The actual effect may have been a change only in the point spread, but Donaghy easily could have gone far enough to turn a winner into a loser, or vice versa. As the investigation continues, we will know more about his calls and their effects on specific games.
What information did Donaghy provide to earn his $5,000 per game?
Court papers indicate that Donaghy told Battista the identities of the refs assigned to a game, described injuries, and analyzed "interactions between players" and "other personnel."  The identity of the officiating crew is supposed to be kept secret until game time. But Donaghy, like all 60 NBA referees, knew the schedule and used it in his scheme. Injury information, especially at the last minute in games Donaghy officiated, could be especially advantageous to gamblers. Donaghy's insights on coaches and player rivalries, after 13 years in the league, also could be advantageous to gamblers.
How does an exchange of information about a basketball game become a federal crime?
The federal case against Donaghy is based on an arcane legal concept known as the "intangible right of honest services." Law professors and judges of higher courts have analyzed and debated "intangible rights" for decades, but in Donaghy's case, it means that the NBA was entitled to honesty and integrity from Donaghy in his work as a referee. Instead of honesty and integrity, the NBA has its worst scandal ever and the integrity of its product is under attack. To achieve his dishonest goals, court documents say, Donaghy made hundreds of cell phone calls, allowing the government to rely on the "intangible rights" concept and to charge him with wire fraud. And his dishonesty allowed the government to charge him with transferring gambling information across state lines, another federal crime. It's a serious set of charges, and Donaghy faces a possible 25 years in the penitentiary.
Donaghy faces 25 years in prison for a gambling scheme that lasted six months. Michael Vick is negotiating with authorities for a term of 18 months in the penitentiary in a dogfighting scheme that lasted for six years. Is NBA gambling that much worse than dogfighting?
Both are serious crimes. Donaghy does face a 25-year sentence, theoretically, but a prison term of that length is unlikely. The length of the potential term is the result of major changes in federal gambling laws. The changes were designed to destroy offshore sports gambling with Internet bookies. Donaghy is caught under the tough new law. But if he succeeds in assisting the government in its investigation of significant targets, he will be eligible for a lenient sentence. The NBA is likely to argue and lobby for a stiff prison term, but the final decision on Donaghy's time in jail will come from U.S. District Court Judge Carol Bagley Amon.
Vick faces charges under a new federal law that is aimed at dogfighting, but the penalties established by the legislation are significantly less than the penalties for gambling violations. It is a quirk in federal crime laws. Many would argue that dogfighting should result in penalties more severe than the penalties for gambling, especially when there is so much legal gambling in the U.S.
If Donaghy has already admitted everything, who is the FBI's target in this investigation?
Battista was betting big money. In the patois of sports gamblers, he is known as a "mover." He would move the big money around in small parcels, trying to avoid changing the spread with his bets. If Battista put all the money down in one place, he would move the odds against his bet. It appears from court papers that he was betting other people's money. Who are the other people? Are they the targets of this investigation? There is more to come.
What's next in this investigation?
It does not appear that any other NBA referees are involved. That could change, but it appears to be unlikely. Both Battista and Martino have been arrested and will soon appear in court. As federal agents and prosecutors continue to investigate, we will learn more about others involved in the scheme. Are mafia families involved? Rumors persist to that effect, but there is not yet any solid indication of crime syndicate involvement.
Lester Munson, a Chicago lawyer and journalist who has been reporting on investigative and legal issues in the sports industry for 18 years, is a senior writer for ESPN.com.

Coach Don Nelson is at it again. He's experimenting in his basketball laboratory, mixing various lineup concoctions together to see which one performs best as an antidote for more powerful NBA opponents. Right now, Nellie is back to playing "small ball" -- a tactic he has used in the past with Milwaukee and Golden State.
Nelson plays without a center -- mainly because he has none -- and sends out two forwards -- Dirk Nowitzki and Antoine Walker -- and three perimeter players -- Steve Nash, Michael Finley and rookie Marquis Daniels -- to force his opponents into unconventional matchups. He doesn't especially care about his team being undersized because he's going to play some kind of zone defense anyway. And even there, he won't use a standard, predictable zone. Nellie's zone will take on a lot of different shapes, then sometimes becoming a switching man-to-man ... and sometimes he'll even play straight man-to-man and double-team post players who get the ball in the basket area.
There are three reasons why Nellie does this. First, because he loves to tinker with his personnel; second, because he prides himself on being able to find unconventional ways to overcome obstacles; and third, because he wants to win.
The result of all of his trial and error maneuverings is another 50-win season and a chance for Nelson to win his first championship ring. At present, the Mavs are tied with Memphis for fifth place in the Western Conference going into Tuesday's home game with the Grizzlies. A win in that game would probably give the Mavs a first-round playoff matchup with the Lakers; a loss would drop them into a probable matchup with Sacramento. Nellie would prefer the latter.
The Diagnosis
Small ball is the Mavs' best chance to win. Shawn Bradley doesn't have enough "game" to play center on a contending team. Nelson's second option, 6-foot-8 Danny Fortson, is a tough rebounder, but lacks the size to battle other bigs in the West. A three-forward lineup of Walker, Nowitzki and Antawn Jamison doesn't defend well enough to contain any of the front-line positions.
Small ball actually is the most logical lineup that Nellie can employ if he hopes to advance in the playoffs. It provides the team with its highest potential to score and it makes opponents change their style of play. The Mavs need to outscore opponents in an uptempo game. They need to push the ball upcourt and create open shots at the perimeter and drives to the hoop. They are very good at that style, and that style creates a disruptive environment for their opponents -- who have to be thinking of transition defense even while they execute their offense.
Nash is perfect for this game plan. He is extremely quick in advancing the ball on the dribble. He has great court vision and finds open teammates in transition. He's dangerous from 3-point land and finishes at the basket with an array of off-balance but under-control shots.
Nowitzki is also excellent on the run from either deep or in close, and Walker passes well in the open court and finishes consistently at the hoop -- although he's an erratic perimeter shooter. Finley is a great clutch shooter from almost anywhere on the court, and Daniels has been a big surprise with his skill and maturity.
Off the bench, Nellie goes with Jamison, who's been great in a sixth-man role, and another rookie, Josh Howard, who, like Daniels, plays more like a veteran than a rookie. Eduardo Najera is also available for his toughness and hustle in the front-line rotation; and Travis Best gives the team veteran leadership in the backcourt.
The Mavs lead the league in points scored at 105.3 per game. They rank second to Orlando for points allowed at 101.9. Nash said it best: "We need to play our best offense to score a lot of points to win. We just need to be adequate on defense."
The Cure
The Mavs aren't going to be an easy out in the playoffs against any team, but their chances of advancing are best against Sacramento. That matchup pairs two teams that place a high priority on offense and a quick-paced offensive tempo. It will be a shooter's delight with the point totals over the 100 level for both teams. Nelson is hoping for that matchup.
The Mavs' chances for success diminish against the other probable opponent -- the Lakers. Shaquille O'Neal and Karl Malone are unmatched against any of Nellie's defensive ploys and Kobe Bryant will operate with freedom.
Small ball. It's been good enough to get Nellie's team into the playoffs -- but it's unlikely to get him beyond the first round.
Dr. Jack Ramsay, an NBA analyst for ESPN, coached the Trail Blazers to the 1977 NBA championship. A member of the Basketball Hall of Fame, he is a regular contributor to ESPN.com. Click here to send  a question for Dr. Jack for possible use on ESPNEWS.

Racial resentment comes with the territory for the old white man who took quite a bit of flak last week for telling young black men how to dress.
David Knows Best was overstepping his bounds, some argued. Dictator David was showing how out of touch he was with hip-hop culture and the youthful fashion sense.
Allen Iverson called the NBA's new dress code "fake." Jason Richardson and Stephen Jackson thought it was racist. Paul Pierce argued that NBA players are not businessmen, but entertainers, while Tim Duncan opined it was "a load of crap" and "basically retarded."
With the regular season still two weeks from starting, NBA commissioner David Stern's edict managed to transcend the barrier separating from much deeper racial and cultural issues.
This is not the first time that phenomenon has occurred, nor will it be the last. But if you think it bothers Stern, you're wrong.
"We've gotten more ink on the dress policy than the preseason," Stern told ESPN.com. "But that shouldn't surprise us. Magic Johnson, Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf, Latrell Sprewell, Allen [Iverson's] rap record. It's the NBA, we're an accelerator, and actually, that's OK. We're live, unscripted drama. We're a soap opera, on the court and off the court."
In our world, there are still considerable numbers of people who tend to see too many things in black and white, borderline extremists with no mental capacity to shade things a little gray. Folks from every corner of the spectrum found something to say about Dave's dictum on what can and can't be worn, and when, by the athletes employed by The House That Stern Built.
The rule covers all players -- black, white, mixed-race, Asian, European, South American, Caribbean, Canadian and Cuban (but not Mark) -- but a few players and commentators took it as a swipe at the younger black Americans who dominate the NBA's player population of about 450.
Stern, the overseer of a $3 billion-a-year business, said the rule was based on something simple, not sinister.
"We pressed the buttons as soft as we possibly could," Stern said, explaining he felt that with his league getting increasingly younger and the money getting increasingly better, a generation of NBA players had somehow become less aware than their predecessors as to how they were expected to conduct themselves and present themselves to the public.
Coming off a year in which the Pacers-Pistons brawl at The Palace was the defining moment of the regular season, Stern has made the dress code one of several new initiatives aimed at making his players more presentable to a public that will latch on to an issue once on year, on average, and turn it into a broader debate concerning the NBA and society at large.
"If anything, you can hold us responsible for not doing this sooner rather than doing it [at all]," Stern said in an hour-long interview in a conference room next to his office at the league's headquarters in Manhattan. "But for the vast majority of NBA players, it is not an issue.
"The notion is that if you're a professional, with it are certain protocols. One of them is the way you dress when you're on business.
"Our players are off a lot, certainly in the offseason, and when they're not playing or traveling. This doesn't affect that, and they can feel free to express themselves the same way that corporate America expresses itself, putting on shorts and sandals and a ratty old T-shirt and doing what you do."
Pacers president Larry Bird said he fielded more comments from fans about the clothes one of his injured players was wearing during games than he did from fans who simply wanted to discuss the merits of that player's game. The offensive outfit that provoked so much negative feedback was a T-shirt and shorts. Try wearing that to your job next time they have a Casual Friday.
"Young black kids dress like NBA players," Charles Barkley said on "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno." "Unfortunately, they don't get paid like NBA players. So when they go out in the real world, what they wear is held against them.
"If a well-dressed white kid and a black kid wearing a do-rag and throwback jersey came to me in a job interview, I'd hire the white kid," Barkley said. "That's reality."
Without being defensive, Stern defended himself in discussing the racial and cultural ramifications of the dress code, noting with a chuckle that the story did seem to have tremendous "legs" (journalism slang for staying power).
It seemed to be an epic public relations miscue early last week when Stern's announcement of a $100 million community outreach initiative was buried beneath news and commentary regarding the dress code. But to the commissioner, always spinning positive, the dress code brouhaha actually enabled a few mentions of the NBA Cares program when it otherwise would have been ignored by a mainstream media which routinely ignores the league's outreach initiatives.
"Certainly it makes for spectacular copy. ...
"The majority of [players say], 'What's the big deal? That's the way I dress already, and that sounds fair enough. We're all in this together.'
"But it's such a delicious issue that it will get a lot of ink."
Stern even shrugged off the use of the word "racist," saying he took no offense. With half a lifetime of experience in the league office behind him, he's seen enough topics touch off race-related debates. This is just another in a long line of them.
"Well, things involve race. Whenever you have a league in which some significant percentage is black, then things involve race. That's just the way it's going to be. When you have a league like the WNBA that has all women in it, you're going to end up with gender issues. That's just dependent on the composition of the league. But there's a difference between involving race and having actions interpreted as racist."
Was he surprised by the way racism had been thrown into this debate?
"No, because it was thrown into the issue of raising the entry age. That was an issue that was absolutely, positively about basketball, to have better players, older and more experienced, to have better business by being able to look at players a year later."
But during the debate over whether the age limit should be raised by a year to prevent high school players from jumping directly to the pros, Stern himself had made social policy part of the debate. He had said he didn't want young people, including pre-teens and 13- and 14-year-olds in urban America, to think becoming a professional basketball player was a viable post-high school employment option. To him, there were a few too many impressionable youngsters thinking they had the skills to be the next LeBron James.
Now Stern says: "The one thing I never wanted to do was to be viewed as telling a young person what was good for them."
As long as the NBA is a mostly black league based in a predominantly white country, issues involving race will continue to arise. Some of the debate in the days after The Palace brawl was skewed toward the ethnicity of the players throwing punches and the color of the fans on the receiving ends, and when the outrage crossed from palpable to preposterous it infuriated the commissioner.
"The brawl sort of [became] a flashpoint for a lot of feelings that are out there. With race, there's always an issue. And the brawl, unfairly, became the opportunity for the commentators to talk about all NBA players, although 450 of them were not involved in the brawl. 'These people.' 'These thugs.' 'These punks.' And that was a horrible sort of libel and slander of the NBA players. Images that ran were run in the context of a condemnation of all NBA players, and that really upset me. That became a critical flashpoint. And so we've got to dig out from under that," Stern said.
Repairing the league's image was discussed in collective bargaining talks, and the union agreed to have players sign more autographs, make appearances at season ticket-holder functions and explore ways to act more professionally, such as by adhering to the new dress code.
"We like to think that we [basketball people] are the ultimate egalitarians. You know, 'Shirts and skins and what have you got?' And that's been followed by our teams, who turn to whoever they think will help without regard to race. And we have a very effective business, which is based on exporting a league where the majority happens to be African-American. We feel pretty good about what we've been able to accomplish when all of those issues 25 years ago were hailed as likely to lead to our certain demise. So the fact that there's an outcry about cable, or a little bit of flutter about our dress code policy, that's the NBA. Welcome to our world."
Think about that the next time one of the NBA's hot-button issues crosses over into the mainstream debate. When was the last time there was a healthy racial discussion revolving around issues in the NFL or Major League Baseball? Having the NBA as a conduit for those types of discussions, and having a commissioner who's comfortable spurring those discussions, is a healthy thing for a country where the deteriorating level of discourse has helped fuel the polarization of the population.
The dress code is what it is, but it certainly doesn't make David Stern a racist. He's a man who recognizes race issues must occasionally be confronted. If that discussion has to take place through the forum he oversees, so be it.
"We're the NBA, we're the place -- and that's the good news about the NBA -- we're the place where if you want to engage the world in a single conversation, there's always a safe place to do it in sports. If you listen to the morning shows and you listen to the discussion, it's actually kind of a healthy discussion.
"It shows we have the capacity to engage."
Chris Sheridan, a national NBA reporter for the past decade, covers the league for ESPN Insider. To email Chris, click here.

PORTLAND -- When this decade began, they were within minutes of reaching the NBA Finals before an epic collapse in Game 7 of the Western Conference finals against the Lakers started what became a precipitous downfall.
By last season, they were at an all-time low, their record the worst in franchise history.
They used to be an almost impossible ticket, selling out more than 1,000 consecutive games during the height of their popularity, but now they can't even sell out a single game.
The Portland Trail Blazers have cycled from popular to pariahs, and now they are somewhere back on the upswing -- though there's still a long, long way to go, and big questions still to be answered. ESPN.com endeavored to take a broad look at what has gone wrong, and why the disconnect between the team and those around it -- both the newspaper that covers the Blazers and the fans who cheer for them -- has grown so huge.
Black seats vs. red seats
One emblem of the disconnect is the situation at the Trail Blazers' home arena, the Rose Garden.
To truly appreciate how screwed up things have gotten at the Rose Garden over the past few years, consider the factor of the black seats vs. the red seats.
The club seats, luxury suites and the first four rows of courtside seats are black. And if you purchase a ticket for a black seat, the Blazers and their owner, Paul Allen, receive nothing.
The red seats begin in the fifth row of the lower deck, and those are a different story. Buy one of them, and the money goes to the team.
So on those nights when the building is not full, which is basically every night, the Trail Blazers are actually competing against the Global Spectrum Corporation for customers.
And once those folks arrive at the Rose Garden, whether their ticket was red or black, all the money they shell out for parking, peanuts, pizza or pretzels also goes entirely into the pockets of Global Spectrum. Allen and the Blazers don't get a single red cent.
Even Allen's courtside seat along the baseline falls under Global Spectrum's jurisdiction.
The $22 billionaire
It's a crazy arrangement, one that makes even less sense when you consider how quickly Allen could fix it if he wanted to. The world's sixth-richest man, with an estimated net worth of $22 billion, Allen could simply open his checkbook and buy back the building he placed into bankruptcy two years ago. If he did so, the Microsoft co-founder with two mega-yachts -- including one with its own submarine -- would still have more than $21.8 billion left to play with.
"For that to happen, you have to have a willing seller and a price that recognizes what an asset is worth, and if you don't have that, it's not going to happen," Allen told ESPN.com on Friday during an exclusive interview in a small office nestled next to the Trail Blazers' locker room at the Rose Garden.
Despite his vast wealth (and Allen's net worth was roughly $18 billion higher in 1999, according to Forbes), Allen took some bad advice and decided to finance $155 million of the $264 million construction at a whopping 9 percent interest rate, with no ability for an early repayment.
Nearly a decade later, when all the receipts from tickets, concessions, signage and parking were not even covering the debt service on the loan, Allen asked for a renegotiation and threatened to give back the keys if a new deal couldn't be struck.
It may have been seen as a bluff by the bondholders, but it wasn't -- and Allen followed through by putting the arena into bankruptcy. The Rose Garden and all of its preferred revenue streams were taken over by those bondholders -- a conglomerate including Prudential, TIAA-CREF, Farmers Insurance, and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, who then hired Global Spectrum to run the facility.
Blazers for sale
Allen put the Blazers up for sale early this year but pulled the team off the market several months later. A total of 14 investor groups paid the $100,000 fee to apply for a purchase, and the top initial bids came in between $300 and $325 million.
Some believe Allen never truly intended to sell but wanted to hear from the bondholders exactly how much they wanted for the building, which turned out to be a 50-50 split of the potential sale price of the team and arena. After earlier offering 100 cents on the dollar for the remaining debt, Allen tried to get Global to take a bit less than $150 million early in the summer but was turned down.
One team official called it a game of "billionaire chicken," and the failure to reach an agreement to reunite the team and the building put Allen in the same predicament he was in before exploring the sale. The relationship between the sides is so contentious that a dispute over ownership of the actual floor that the Blazers play on was in dispute, and control of the former press seats on the scorer's table is in arbitration.
"Obviously there are multiple parties involved, and we haven't been able to reach any satisfactory arrangement up to this point, so we're exploring all our options. I'd be real interested to get any insight into their psychology," Allen said. "They've had a very steadfast, non-compromising position on these things. So given that, there are only a certain number of alternatives to explore, which we're exploring."
Asked exactly what those alternatives were, Allen would not answer.
"I'm not going to talk about that now," he said.
Could the Blazers move?
Relocating the franchise is certainly one of those options, and it has been speculated that Allen might try to move the team to his home base of Seattle if the recently sold SuperSonics eventually move to Oklahoma City, as many expect.
After a few false starts, NBA commissioner David Stern persuaded Allen and the bondholders to come to an agreement under which the team and the arena would be sold as a unit, but Allen abruptly halted all sale talks after Global attached a specific value to the arena.
ESPN.com asked Allen to explain why he decided not to sell.
He replied: "Well, obviously we undertook a rebuilding process a couple years ago, and I thought we had a really great draft with LaMarcus Aldridge and Brandon Roy, and that was one of the reasons I decided not to go through with the sale. Draft day, all the trades we made, it was just a real positive development for the franchise, and the fact that Seattle sold for quite a bit of money, too, and given the structure of what we were looking at, and the sales process -- and it was never a commitment to definitively sell the team, it was a process -- and for those two reasons, and for other reasons, I decided I was not going to sell."
Allen's next move is unclear, and he may feel he's best served by waiting. A vacancy 175 miles to the north might give Allen the leverage he needs to strike a more favorable deal with his bondholders and regain control of the Rose Garden, since Global Spectrum would conceivably be unable to operate the arena at a profit without its main tenant.
So Allen is sitting and waiting, and the Trail Blazers' long-term prospects remain just as uncertain as they were on trade-deadline day last February when Allen's representatives from Vulcan Inc., the company that manages Allen's investments, made the surprise announcement that Allen was planning to sell.
Vulcan logic
Some in the team's front office had asked the Vulcan representatives to hold off a day on the announcement so as to not steal the spotlight on any trades that might be announced -- a request that mystified the corporate-minded folks from up north and was rejected.
It was not the first time the folks from Vulcan had come down on the Blazers in a heavy-handed way. After Allen lost $105 million in the 2002-03 season, one-third of the staff was fired, with some employees saying they were asked to sign nondisclosure forms in order to receive their severance checks; then they were escorted from the building by security guards.
"Some of the best people were let go, and some of the worst people stayed. It was awful. It was done in such a way that people were humiliated," recalled former television producer George Wasch, who was not among those fired but rather left the team through retirement. "It had been an incredibly wonderful place to work, so unbelievably fantastic, but it turned 180 degrees."
Trail Blazers president Steve Patterson, who took over from the deposed Bob Whitsitt shortly before the firings, recalled his first meeting with Mayor Vera Katz.
"She said: 'Well, Mr. Patterson, aside from laying off 88 fine Portlanders, what else have you done since you arrived?' I didn't even get hello out of my mouth," Patterson said.
Fall from grace
That summer is generally acknowledged as the low point for the Blazers, a reversal that began with the stunning Game 7 collapse against the Los Angeles Lakers in the 2000 Western Conference finals and culminated last season when Portland posted a 21-61 record.
In contrast, "Blazermania" had reigned from the 1970s through the 1990s, before the "Jail Blazers" era, epitomized by the poor public behavior of the likes of J.R. Rider, Rasheed Wallace, Ruben Patterson, Qyntel Woods and Bonzi Wells. But in the 21st century, the distaste of the local populace has reached the point that there was not a single sellout during the 2005-06 season.
"When I was growing up, it was impossible to get tickets," said Blazers guard Dan Dickau, who was born in Portland and raised in nearby Vancouver, Wash. "For Christmas I always got two tickets to a game, and that was always the biggest thing. But the last five or six years, you could get a ticket for nothing."
Blazers vs. The Oregonian
During the franchise's fall from grace, coverage in the city's only daily newspaper, The Oregonian, was, as expected, negative. Poor relationships still exist between certain key team executives and the newspaper's beat writer, Jason Quick, and top columnist, John Canzano.
Oregonian executive editor Peter Bhatia told ESPN.com that the relationship between the newspaper and the team is more fractured than it's ever been, though he defended his paper's coverage as fair. Canzano particularly riled the Blazers two seasons ago when he reported on a document disclosing that the team had agreed to repay Darius Miles the money he would have lost from a suspension over a heated argument with then-coach Maurice Cheeks. Steve Patterson denied that such a document existed, only to have the Oregonian post the document on its Web site to refute his claim.
Looking back on the sequence of events, Patterson explained that the document was leaked to Canzano before he knew it existed. But bad feelings over the scandal have left Canzano and Patterson deeply distrustful of each other, a dynamic that didn't get any better last month after Canzano reported that Miles had stopped at a downtown restaurant and consumed two mixed drinks when the Blazers were on the road playing their final exhibition game and Miles was supposed to be rehabbing his knee.
The Blazers have taken the highly unusual step of issuing press releases after a pair of spats with Quick. One was over the substance of a quote from coach Nate McMillan. On the second occasion, Quick had reported details of a predraft workout by Adam Morrison, Brandon Roy and Rudy Gay against the Blazers' wishes; he had watched the workout through a gap in the blinds at the team's practice facility.
From afar, the Blazers' actions have appeared petty, thin-skinned and paranoid, though they defended them as their only recourse after Patterson spoke with several high-ranking Oregonian editors and claims he was laughed at (an allegation Bhatia, who defended Quick's actions, denied).
The cold relations between the team and the newspaper prompted the Oregonian to hire an outside writer and editor to produce an article examining the poor dynamics, and the resulting piece, which ran Nov. 6, didn't leave any of the protagonists feeling any better.
So fed up and frustrated were the Blazers that they didn't even take their usual step of complaining to the paper when Canzano reported Thursday that there were no lines at the ticket windows for a home game the previous night against the Lakers. One team official said the lines were actually so long, frantic e-mails were exchanged in-house warning that the lines might be a subject of negative coverage in the next day's newspaper.
Officials around the NBA say it's the most dysfunctional media-team relationship they could ever recall, a byproduct of the so-called fishbowl factor endemic to being the only pro sports franchise in what is essentially a one newspaper town.
"It's kind of tough. It can be good sometimes, it can be bad sometimes. There ain't nothing here. We're the focus of attention," Zach Randolph said. "I've been here a long time, so I'm used to it."
The Sacramento Kings, Memphis Grizzlies and San Antonio Spurs have a similar dynamic, but the fishbowl factor hasn't been in play -- mostly because those teams have been winning and staying out of trouble -- anywhere near as much as it has been in Portland.
"Because we're the only team in town, if something happens, maybe it gets not exaggerated, but it gets reported numerous times and with more emphasis than it would in a different market," Dickau said.
"I also think it comes back to when the Blazers were rolling, people lived and died with the Blazers. And if you get that connection and negative things happen, you're not going to be too happy with it."
Lingering resentment
Plenty of resentment still exists toward Allen, whose bankruptcy filing was scorned as a ridiculous ploy by a multibillionaire who had failed as poorly in his stewardship of the franchise as he had in several of his other businesses. Allen had invested heavily during the early 1990s in nearly 150 companies, including various high-technology sectors (TiVo-capable cable television boxes, for instance) that are only now coming into widespread use.
One former Blazervision employee, now working elsewhere in the sports industry, told the story of how Allen poured $11 million into a state-of-the-art, high-definition television truck that he turned around and sold for $4 million during the carnage of the 2003 cutbacks.
"That truck was doing the Masters at the time, and that truck did the Super Bowl. It was a moneymaking truck, but like everything else with Paul Allen, when he gets rid of it, he makes bad deals," the person said.
Another former employee recalled another money-burning story from the "SPAM (Spending Paul Allen's Money) era," when technicians hastily bought up $30,000 worth of satellite time so a broadcast of Allen's Seattle Seahawks could be beamed to him in Russia. But after the crew scrambled to beam the signal, they later were told that no one in Allen's entourage had been courageous enough to awaken the sleeping billionaire in the middle of the night so he could watch the game.
One technician recalled once receiving a phone call in the broadcasting control room complaining that the signal on Allen's yacht was not coming in clearly:
"I asked them how high the seas were, and they said, '10 feet.' So I had to tell them it's pretty hard to keep a steady satellite signal when your boat is in 10-foot seas."
I asked Allen what he believed to be his standing in the local court of public opinion, and the plainly dressed, soft-spoken Microsoft co-founder once dubbed "The Accidental Zillionaire" swallowed hard and nodded his head in what seemed like a tacit acknowledgement of his low approval ratings. Yes, he's one of the world's biggest philanthropists, but he's reviled by many in the city where he first purchased the Blazers in 1988.
"Mmm, I think there's probably differing opinions out here," Allen said, noting that he attends more home games than perhaps any other owner in the league outside of Dallas' Mark Cuban. "I've been trying to bring a championship to Portland, and I think people do appreciate that aspect. And whenever you go deep in the rebuilding process and have a year like we had last year, people are going to say, 'What is ownership thinking? What does this rebuilding process really mean?'
"Last year was a tough year and you had all those factors in play, and I think this year people are starting to see finally the results of what I say we're going to do and what we're trying to do."
And with that, Allen was out the door, exiting with a smile and a firm handshake as he went off to watch his Blazers complete a comeback from a 27-point deficit to defeat New Orleans/Oklahoma City before a raucous crowd that cheered with an earsplitting chorus that briefly, just briefly, gave a taste of what it was like back in the days of Blazermania.
Allen soaked it all up before leaving for the evening, his spirits lifted -- but his prospects for the future just as uncertain as they were at the start of the night when he planted himself in the front row and settled into his black seat, the one owned by someone else.
Will this thing have a happy ending?
"That's certainly my hope, and that's what we're trying to achieve," Allen said. "But there's probably going to be a few turns in the road before we get to that point."
Chris Sheridan covers the NBA for ESPN Insider. To e-mail Chris, click here.

LAS VEGAS -- Scattered throughout the Thomas & Mack Center on Sunday were a handful of people lucky enough to have witnessed closely the 1992 Dream Team and the 2007 U.S. Olympic qualifying team.
A few of them were on the inside back in Barcelona, spending nearly every waking hour shepherding the 1992 U.S. team -- the Dream Team -- through the ins and outs of the Olympics. Others were chronicling that team's dominance for the folks back home, who got their news from newspapers as the Web was still in its infancy.
ESPN.com talked to a bunch of them over the weekend, asking them to compare what is widely acknowledged as the greatest team ever assembled to this year's version of Team USA, which steamrolled its way through the Tournament of the Americas and will be the undisputed favorite in the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
Of all of those interviewed, only one was bold enough to say what a lot of people are beginning to think.
That was Jose "Piculin" Ortiz, the Puerto Rican basketball legend who competed against the Dream Team 15 years ago and was still mixing it up in international competitions as late as 2004, when he was a member of the Puerto Rico team that defeated the United States by 19 points in Athens.
I reintroduced myself to him up in the top row of the media seats Sunday afternoon just before halftime of the Argentina-U.S. gold medal game and asked him the same question I had been asking everyone else I could find: How does this team stack up against that team?
"I think this team is much better," Ortiz said.
"When '92 came, Larry Bird was already coming out [of the NBA], Magic was coming out. Those guys were legends, but this team is a great, talented team."
Final judgment on this version of Team USA will have to wait another year until we see how it performs in Beijing against world-class competition, but for now we're left with the lingering image of the breathtaking display of harmony and talent this team put on over the past two weeks while decimating its competition by an average of nearly 40 points per game.
At Sunday's postgame news conference, U.S. coach Mike Krzyzewski seemed stunned by the level of awe and respect coming from the mouth of his Argentine counterpart, Sergio Hernandez.
"It is obvious that no one will ever forget the original Dream Team with Michael Jordan, Magic Johnson and Larry Bird, but I really like this Team USA team because they also have players of the same caliber such as LeBron James and Kobe Bryant who know how to really play together.
"They have good chemistry. They play great defense, but the most important thing for us would be the respect they have for all the other teams so much," said Hernandez, who apologized for his broken English. "I tell you, and I want to say that again and again and again, because I like when teams play hard. If they can beat me by 40 points, I don't want them to beat me by 20 points. I want 40 points -- and this is what they do.
"So, I say thank you. It was a big pleasure to play against you. The game, you see the game. They shoot 20 3-point shots, 25 fast-break points, 15 offensive rebounds. They kill Argentina. They're great."
Krzyzewski, who was an assistant on the 1992 Barcelona team, said he was enjoying this experience more. His comparison of the two teams:
"It was one of those unique experiences of my life, but it's a different time. We could win on just talent alone at that time in the history of international basketball, but those days are gone."
Here's what others who were around Team USA in 1992 and 2007 had to say:
Rod Thorn, general manager the New Jersey Nets, who was a committee member for USA Basketball in 1992:
"Athletically, I don't know that we've had a team more athletic than this team. That team had some of the icons in the history of basketball on it, so you know, it's tough to compare until this team goes on in Beijing."
Russ Granik, former NBA deputy commissioner, who was vice president of USA Basketball in 1992:
"That was a more veteran team, and what you had back then is most of those guys had never had a chance to play in the Olympics. You had a couple, Michael Jordan and David Robinson, but a lot of those guys had never had a chance to play in the Olympics, and even in their 30s they all wanted to play.
"Now you have a situation where a lot of veteran guys, like Kevin Garnett, they've had their chance to play already. So it's not the same."
Terry Lyons, former NBA vice president of international public relations, who handled media relations chores for every U.S. senior national team since '92:
"I have to say it's apples and oranges. Totally different. I'd have to say the '92 team because of the experience would have the edge. But I think this team, by far, is quicker, younger and more athletic, but the '92 team could really score up the middle. Mailman [Karl Malone] and Charles Barkley inside, [Patrick] Ewing and David Robinson up the middle were a lot to handle. But I'd love to see a game [between them]."
Jim O'Connell, longtime basketball writer for the Associated Press and a member of the Naismith Memorial Hall of Fame:
"The biggest difference is the Dream Team, most of them were two exits away from Springfield [Mass.] on I-91. They had all been around for a long time, but these guys are all at the beginnings of their careers with the exception of Jason Kidd.
"But that team had a mystique and an aura to it, because everybody knew who they were everywhere in the world, and not just in the U.S. And if you look on the court, that team had more size with the two centers, Robinson and Ewing, so they could take you inside. But this team is probably a little quicker on the perimeter because of how much younger it was.
"If I had to take one of the two teams, I'd take the Dream Team because they were so much more polished. Maybe if this team stays together and in 2012 we're talking about them, these guys might be that good of a team."
Mark Heisler, veteran NBA columnist for the Los Angeles Times:
"Dream Team was tremendous on offense. We didn't notice if they played any defense, and they probably didn't. But I think the one thing the Dream Team had, besides all the greatest players, I think Magic Johnson's personality made all the difference. He made it so that everybody wanted to play their best. Magic was the rarest of all things, he was a great player who transcended all the other great players just on personality. So there were better players on that team, Michael Jordan to start with, but Magic's personality really made that team different.
"But the one thing I really like about this team, it seems like they've got really good chemistry as far as personalities. I think Kobe's personality and Jason Kidd's personality, I think it's really impressive -- as much better as they are than everyone here -- how hard they play."
Jan Hubbard, columnist for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, who covered the 1992 team for New York Newsday:
"Other than the '96 team that had five members of the Dream Team on it, this team is the closest to the Dream Team. Probably lacking in the middle, compared to Ewing and Robinson, but with Kobe playing defense, he mimics Jordan and Pippen. They had two defenders, and this team kind of really only has one.
"The other thing is that those guys were just legends. They had Magic, Michael and Larry, and Charles, I think in the Olympics kind of became like a legend. He was the second-best player on that team. Michael was first and Scottie [Pippen] was third.
"But that team was older, I think they had five guys over 30 -- this one has two -- more Finals appearances, more championships, more of a veteran team, and just this aura that was incredible.
"But this team is a reasonable facsimile of that, and except for the '96 team, is the best international team they've had -- and has the most promise."
Chris Sheridan covers the NBA for ESPN Insider. To e-mail Chris, click here.

NEW YORK -- Some coach is going to inherit the mess Isiah Thomas left behind. So who would be the best fit?
"If I could get the coach I wanted right away, then that would be great, but if it's going to take time, then I have to give it that time," Donnie Walsh, the new president of the New York Knicks said Friday as he announced Thomas' firing on a conference call.
"I know this: That by getting to this by today, Friday, we still have a good selection of people that are available out there. I will get calls. This is a coveted job, and people will want to coach here. So I'm going to get calls," Walsh said.
Let's take a look at some of the candidates whose names have been in circulation since Walsh, who said he has not yet formally contacted anyone about the job, took over from Thomas as team president:
Mark Jackson: The former point guard is a perfect candidate in many ways: He's a New Yorker, as brash and outspoken as they come, a guy who won't be afraid to bench Eddy Curry and tell the world he's keeping him there until the big fella drops 20 pounds and learns to lift his arms over his shoulders.
Jackson was loved by New Yorkers when he played for the Knicks and won rookie of the year honors in 1988; reviled by them in the mid '90s when he played for the hated Pacers and had the audacity to shimmy-shake on the Garden floor as the Pacers were pulling away for a key victory in the 2000 Eastern Conference finals; and respected by them for his insightful work in the broadcast booth alongside Marv Albert on the YES Network's telecasts of New Jersey Nets games. He has never been a head coach, but Walsh's goal of getting under the salary cap by 2010 would provide Jackson with two years of on-the-job training with expectations set deliberately low.
Herb Williams: He twice has held the job for which he'll likely get to interview again, and has a positive history with Walsh going back to the days when Williams was a star for the Pacers in the '80s.
But Williams, like Isiah, carries the baggage of being a face inextricably linked to the Knicks' dismal recent past. Williams is better than Thomas was at relating to and communicating with the players, and he could be kept aboard in some sort of bridge capacity  even if it isn't as a member of the new coach's staff.
"If we choose a new coach, usually they want their own staff. But I'll certainly present this [current] staff to whoever it is that has this job so they can be part of the mix of what he has to choose from," Walsh said.
Rick Carlisle: Die-hards among Knicks fans remember that Carlisle actually played 26 games for the Knicks in the 1987-88 season  the year Jackson was rookie of the year for a 38-win team that included coach Rick Pitino's failed Twin Towers alignment of Patrick Ewing and Bill Cartwright. (Also on that Knicks team was another future coach, Billy Donovan.)
Carlisle was on the Larry Bird side of the equation in the ever-evolving Bird-Walsh dynamic in Indiana, and it's unclear whether that might affect his chances. Another factor is whether Carlisle is courted harder by the Bucks and/or Bulls than by Walsh.
Scott Skiles: Would a two-year rebuilding project predicated on shedding big contracts truly appeal to Skiles, who already went through a long rebuilding process with the Bulls? Then there's the question of how he'd mix with Curry if the big fella isn't traded. Skiles, you'll remember, was asked once what Curry needed to do to be a better rebounder. "Jump" was the one-word reply from Skiles, who also had a less-than-perfect relationship with another current member of the Knicks, Jamal Crawford.
Jeff Van Gundy: Walsh supposedly has complete autonomy, but it's hard to imagine Knicks owner Jim Dolan stomaching the return of a coach who burned his bridges with Dolan when he resigned (Dolan always likes to use the word "quit") 19 games into the 2001-02 season.
"I haven't contacted anyone. I've had a couple guys reach out to me, but I told them that until we dealt with the coach that we have in place, I wasn't going to be dealing with them, and so far I haven't. But I will be compiling a list, and Jeff is certainly a legitimate guy to be on the list, that's for sure," Walsh said.
Tom Thibodeau: He signed only a one-year deal as an assistant coach with the Celtics, so he'll be a free agent when Boston's season ends. The defensive guru, whose success in Boston ironically might be keeping the Celtics'
Doc Rivers from being considered a strong coach of the year candidate, was a longtime Van Gundy assistant and disciple who has come out from under that shadow this season. It's unknown whether Dolan still views him through a Van Gundy-tainted lens.
Paul Silas: Perhaps he and Del Harris will be in the mix as fallback candidates. Silas is especially intriguing as a long shot candidate because he could be put in place two years early as part of a plan to go after LeBron James on the free-agent market in 2010. Silas, you'll remember, was James' first coach in Cleveland, and James still likes and respects him tremendously.
If Walsh chooses to go younger, other current assistants and former NBA coaches who could enter the mix include Patrick Ewing, Terry Porter, Dwane Casey, Brian Shaw and Mario Elie, among others.
David Blatt: The longest of long shots, Blatt nonetheless is considered the best American coach overseas. The Russian national team coach was fired recently by Efes Pilsen in Turkey. Euroleague conspiracy theorists believe he'll soon replace Ettore Messina for CSKA Moscow, but it also should be noted that he was a college teammate of Madison Square Garden president Steve Mills'. Blatt told ESPN.com last summer that he was at a point in his career when he would want to come to the NBA only as a head coach, not as an assistant.
Chris Sheridan covers the NBA for ESPN Insider. To e-mail Chris, click here.

Kevin Durant will have to get comfortable with the spotlight being on him for the rest of the summer.Andrew D. Bernstein/NBAE/Getty ImagesLAS VEGAS -- Team USA coach Mike Krzyzewski calls him the only player guaranteed to make the final cut. USA Basketball director Jerry Colangelo says he will be the face of the American team throughout the summer of 2010.Kevin Durant is having none of it. At least, so he claims."I doubt I'm the next face; I'm just another guy helping to bring a gold back to the U.S. It's been a dream of mine since I was a little kid," Durant said on what turned out to be a rough first day of minicamp for Team USA.After learning late Monday night that they would be without Amare Stoudemire (uninsurable contract) and Robin Lopez (back injury rehabilitation), the Americans lost another big man Tuesday when David Lee jammed his right middle finger against the bottom of the backboard while blocking a shot. It is too soon to say how long Lee will be out, but when he looked down at his finger, it was facing sideways.Lamar Odom is now the sole remaining team member who has represented the United States in a major international competition, having been a member of the Olympic team that lost three times in Athens in 2004 en route to a bronze-medal finish.But that equation might have been different if the head honchos in the U.S. federation had decided to bring Durant to the Beijing Olympics in 2008. They didn't say so at the time, but Durant was in the mix when the debate over the final roster spot came down to three names: Tayshaun Prince, Tyson Chandler and Durant.Prince got the spot, and Durant had to watch from afar."He performed so well at such a young age, he did have that sort of serious consideration relevant to being on the club, but we made a decision to go another route," Colangelo said. "He was very committed to the program, and he was going to have his opportunity in the next quad."And almost immediately after Beijing, we started talking about Durant being one of the premier players in the league, and here he is in '10 as the guy we're going to build a team around, it seems. And he's the leading scorer in the league, he's 21 years old and he is the full package."Durant became the youngest player in NBA history to lead the league in scoring when he averaged 30.1 points for the Oklahoma City Thunder this past season, scoring 25 or more points in 29 consecutive games -- the longest such streak by any active NBA player.He made news earlier this month when he announced his contract extension with the Thunder via his Twitter account, an utter contrast to the hoopla and hype surrounding LeBron James' decision to sign as a free agent with the Miami Heat.

I doubt I'm the next face; I'm just another guy helping to bring a gold back to the U.S. It's been a dream of mine since I was a little kid.-- Kevin Durant
"I keep telling people my situation was a little different than the other guys. It was just reupping my contract, and I'm a quiet guy, a low-key guy, so I chose that way," Durant said. "LeBron James is the biggest name in sports, nothing he does is ever going to be quiet, so you can't blame him for what happened and how he made his decision."Some of the roots of what made Durant such an efficient scoring machine can be traced back to the summer of 2008 when he was trying to make the roster for Beijing and the team was given a day off in Las Vegas.We'll let Durant pick up the story from there."We had the day off, but they said we could get some shots up if we wanted, so I decided to head over with [Oklahoma City teammate and Team USA hopeful] Jeff Green."Kobe [Bryant] was the only guy on the bus, and that spoke volumes to me -- he's the best player in the game, yet he's always willing to come work on his game, so that kind of motivated me and Jeff," Durant said. "He went by himself, he got a lot of shots up, and by the time he was done you could see he had gotten better over that hour. Like I said, it was a big inspiration to me and Jeff."After getting cut for the first and last time in his life, Durant watched from the sofa as the American team waltzed into the gold-medal game and then was tested by Spain, ultimately emerging with a 118-107 victory that ended an eight-year gold-medal drought for the senior U.S. men's national team.But the gold-medal drought for the Americans in the FIBA World Championship remains intact, now at 16 years and counting as Team USA prepares to head to Turkey without any of the members of the so-called Redeem Team from Beijing.The competition will surely be a lot stiffer when KD gets to Turkey.Andrew D. Bernstein/NBAE/Getty ImagesDurant will be the team's stud, but he will not bring a wealth of international experience to the table. His passport bears only three stamps: one from Canada; one from a trip to Paris he made for a Nike all-star game when he was 16; the third from a promotional tour he made to China on behalf of the shoe company. When asked to name the most hostile arena in which he has played, he had to steer his memory bank to the single season of college ball he played at Texas."Toughest gym? Would have to be Oklahoma State, but I heard it's worse over there in Turkey."But only when facing the Turks.Team USA played before nothing but welcoming crowds in the run-ups to the 2006 world championship in Japan and the 2008 Beijing Olympics, and the team hierarchy wanted the American players to get a taste of something different this time around. Hence the exhibition games they'll play against Spain in Madrid (on the second night of a back-to-back after a game versus Lithuania, whose rabid fans are certain to be in abundance) and against Greece in Athens as they make their way toward Turkey.As green as Durant is in navigating his way through foreign lands, he at least has the benefit of being in his fourth consecutive year of playing with Team USA in its Las Vegas training camps, giving him a familiarity with the nuances and rules differences that at times can make FIBA basketball seem like an entirely different sport than NBA basketball.This year, instead of being a squad with too many superstars to fit into the starting lineup (Dwyane Wade was the 2008 team's sixth man), the Americans now have just one player worthy of that moniker -- a dynamic all the opposing teams will be aware of when they focus their defensive schemes on stopping Durant."I can't do the same here as I did for Oklahoma City," he said. "Got to tone it down a little more, sacrifice a little bit more, but I'm willing to do that. I can't wait to do that and be a leader. There wasn't one guy on that last team that was the same as he was on his NBA team. Kobe wasn't. LeBron wasn't. D-Wade. Everybody changed, and I'm happy to be a part of the same thing here."Hopefully it works out and I make the team."Barring a calamity, he will.

LAS VEGAS -- Team USA coach Mike Krzyzewski calls him the only player guaranteed to make the final cut. USA Basketball director Jerry Colangelo says he will be the face of the American team throughout the summer of 2010.
Kevin Durant is having none of it. At least, so he claims.
"I doubt I'm the next face; I'm just another guy helping to bring a gold back to the U.S. It's been a dream of mine since I was a little kid," Durant said on what turned out to be a rough first day of minicamp for Team USA.
After learning late Monday night that they would be without Amare Stoudemire (uninsurable contract) and Robin Lopez (back injury rehabilitation), the Americans lost another big man Tuesday when David Lee jammed his right middle finger against the bottom of the backboard while blocking a shot. It is too soon to say how long Lee will be out, but when he looked down at his finger, it was facing sideways.
Lamar Odom is now the sole remaining team member who has represented the United States in a major international competition, having been a member of the Olympic team that lost three times in Athens in 2004 en route to a bronze-medal finish.
But that equation might have been different if the head honchos in the U.S. federation had decided to bring Durant to the Beijing Olympics in 2008. They didn't say so at the time, but Durant was in the mix when the debate over the final roster spot came down to three names: Tayshaun Prince, Tyson Chandler and Durant.
Prince got the spot, and Durant had to watch from afar.
"He performed so well at such a young age, he did have that sort of serious consideration relevant to being on the club, but we made a decision to go another route," Colangelo said. "He was very committed to the program, and he was going to have his opportunity in the next quad.
"And almost immediately after Beijing, we started talking about Durant being one of the premier players in the league, and here he is in '10 as the guy we're going to build a team around, it seems. And he's the leading scorer in the league, he's 21 years old and he is the full package."
Durant became the youngest player in NBA history to lead the league in scoring when he averaged 30.1 points for the Oklahoma City Thunder this past season, scoring 25 or more points in 29 consecutive games -- the longest such streak by any active NBA player.
He made news earlier this month when he announced his contract extension with the Thunder via his Twitter account, an utter contrast to the hoopla and hype surrounding LeBron James' decision to sign as a free agent with the Miami Heat.




I doubt I'm the next face; I'm just another guy helping to bring a gold back to the U.S. It's been a dream of mine since I was a little kid.


"I keep telling people my situation was a little different than the other guys. It was just reupping my contract, and I'm a quiet guy, a low-key guy, so I chose that way," Durant said. "LeBron James is the biggest name in sports, nothing he does is ever going to be quiet, so you can't blame him for what happened and how he made his decision."
Some of the roots of what made Durant such an efficient scoring machine can be traced back to the summer of 2008 when he was trying to make the roster for Beijing and the team was given a day off in Las Vegas.
We'll let Durant pick up the story from there.
"We had the day off, but they said we could get some shots up if we wanted, so I decided to head over with [Oklahoma City teammate and Team USA hopeful] Jeff Green.
"Kobe [Bryant] was the only guy on the bus, and that spoke volumes to me -- he's the best player in the game, yet he's always willing to come work on his game, so that kind of motivated me and Jeff," Durant said. "He went by himself, he got a lot of shots up, and by the time he was done you could see he had gotten better over that hour. Like I said, it was a big inspiration to me and Jeff."
After getting cut for the first and last time in his life, Durant watched from the sofa as the American team waltzed into the gold-medal game and then was tested by Spain, ultimately emerging with a 118-107 victory that ended an eight-year gold-medal drought for the senior U.S. men's national team.
But the gold-medal drought for the Americans in the FIBA World Championship remains intact, now at 16 years and counting as Team USA prepares to head to Turkey without any of the members of the so-called Redeem Team from Beijing.
Durant will be the team's stud, but he will not bring a wealth of international experience to the table. His passport bears only three stamps: one from Canada; one from a trip to Paris he made for a Nike all-star game when he was 16; the third from a promotional tour he made to China on behalf of the shoe company. When asked to name the most hostile arena in which he has played, he had to steer his memory bank to the single season of college ball he played at Texas.
"Toughest gym? Would have to be Oklahoma State, but I heard it's worse over there in Turkey."
But only when facing the Turks.
Team USA played before nothing but welcoming crowds in the run-ups to the 2006 world championship in Japan and the 2008 Beijing Olympics, and the team hierarchy wanted the American players to get a taste of something different this time around. Hence the exhibition games they'll play against Spain in Madrid (on the second night of a back-to-back after a game versus Lithuania, whose rabid fans are certain to be in abundance) and against Greece in Athens as they make their way toward Turkey.
As green as Durant is in navigating his way through foreign lands, he at least has the benefit of being in his fourth consecutive year of playing with Team USA in its Las Vegas training camps, giving him a familiarity with the nuances and rules differences that at times can make FIBA basketball seem like an entirely different sport than NBA basketball.
This year, instead of being a squad with too many superstars to fit into the starting lineup (Dwyane Wade was the 2008 team's sixth man), the Americans now have just one player worthy of that moniker -- a dynamic all the opposing teams will be aware of when they focus their defensive schemes on stopping Durant.
"I can't do the same here as I did for Oklahoma City," he said. "Got to tone it down a little more, sacrifice a little bit more, but I'm willing to do that. I can't wait to do that and be a leader. There wasn't one guy on that last team that was the same as he was on his NBA team. Kobe wasn't. LeBron wasn't. D-Wade. Everybody changed, and I'm happy to be a part of the same thing here.
"Hopefully it works out and I make the team."
Barring a calamity, he will.

I always forget what a pain in my ass this time of year is.
Right now, my daily routine begins with a visit to a Web site called HoopsHype, where can be found a collection of all the stories related to the NBA found in that day's major newspapers. I start most days with a perusal of the site, hoping to learn a little about the ebbs and flows of the professional basketball player job market.
Every few days, I read something that causes me to think, "Hmmm ... as I've long suspected, someone with [insert team name here] is insane. Because no non-Zoloft-addled brain would sign [insert player's name here] to a five-year contract."
I then briefly consider a different vocation, but quickly realize it is doubtful any other job would allow me to get up at 9:45 on a semi-regular basis. So I resign myself to my bowl of cereal and a trip to the gym.
My perusal of HoopsHype is probably not healthy. It causes me to revert to old habits. When I first got out of college, I was quick to criticize players above me on the proverbial food chain. I would watch games or hear about transactions, then would make snap statements comparing the relative merits of a particular player's skill set to mine. Some of the time, I was probably right. There were, and are, players undeserving of their contracts, of their places on their teams. (And probably of their wives. I've seen some really ugly basketball players with some really decent-looking mates.)
But that line of reasoning cuts both ways. There are certainly guys who deserve my spot who will never get the opportunities I've had.
Eventually, I learned that my bellyaching was not helping me to get a basketball job. (I learned this with the help of my family, who got really tired of hearing me complain. That I lived at home in the offseasons at the beginning of my career lends credence to the argument that I was unqualified for much self-aggrandizement.) I finally realized that there are a lot of dudes competing for only a few really, really good jobs, and that, unfortunately, some of those terrible clichs -- such as "timing is everything," "it's not what you know, but who you know" and "never get involved in a land war in Asia" -- are true.
This theory -- that much of my career is out of my control -- goes against everything in which I believe. As I have mentioned, I am just a dumb jock at heart. As such, I think my pay scale should be based purely on my ability to play basketball. My inner basketball player doesn't understand that other factors are at work -- the relationship my agent has with a team, the nationality of someone's director of player personnel, the loss of a GM's cell phone because of a touchy situation involving a stripper in Tijuana.
That inner basketball player doesn't know how to process those intricacies. He just wants to put the ball in the hoop.
Every other unsigned basketball player is a competitor in my marketplace. As such, when someone else signs a contract with a team, I take that news as rejection. I liken it to losing out on an acting job. Without saying it directly, someone intimated that I wasn't good enough for the part.
I got to know a fair number of actors while I was in L.A. I even tried to date one. Unfortunately, she turned out to be a little crazy. But I think they all are. Just like basketball players. In fact, we're kindred spirits. (Perhaps explaining my willingness to see through the crazy despite cautionary tales from ... pretty much every male in Los Angeles, including Barry Bostwick.)
I figured out that actors live a brutal life. They are constantly told no. Even the best are routinely rejected. And that rejection comes about because they failed at baring themselves sufficiently -- a rather violating pastime in the first place.
Basketball players aren't much different. We invest countless hours and mental energy toward getting as good as we can. (Well, I do. There are some guys who can just show up and dominate. I hate them.) We "audition" and, most of the time, are told no.
I've been told I wasn't good enough, either directly or indirectly, more than all my friends combined. (Except the actor friends. Who might not be my friends -- since they're actors. Note to self: further flaw in dating an actress -- especially a good one. It's quite possible she would be acting as though she likes me.)
Like most people, I don't like it when someone tells me I'm not good enough.
Every summer about this time, I engage in almost-daily mental battles as I read about contracts being handed out. I sometimes figure out that it doesn't help to think about it; obviously, my situation is not tops on the list of concerns of any team's general manager. While marquee free agents are courted and flown from city to city, I learn about potential jobs from the Internet and my agent.
The good news -- and the bad news -- is that I have something to worry about. In the end, my summer league stint in Las Vegas did me some good. I played pretty well. By the end of it all, I had put together two really good games and three OK games. I returned home to Kansas City to learn, via MRI, that my knee is going to be just fine. (Long story; suffice it to say someone is going to aspirate a Baker's cyst, which sounds gross ...  because it is. But it's not a big deal.)
This is all bad news because I played well enough that I can question some of those players who undoubtedly will get contracts ahead of me. But, this year I will do my best to avoid comparisons to those signing the contracts, if only to prevent my father from saying things like, "Well, if you're so good, then why didn't you just sign a $15 million contract?" There really is no way to rebut that -- because it's a good point.
Not that I haven't tried.
Paul Shirley has played for 12 pro basketball teams, including three NBA teams -- the Chicago Bulls, Atlanta Hawks and Phoenix Suns. His journal appears regularly at ESPN.com. To e-mail Paul, click here.

As much as any other athlete and far more than most, Wilt Chamberlain enjoyed individual records.
If Chamberlain were still with us, he'd be smiling today. His highest-profile record -- 100 points in a game -- just dodged a bullet from Kobe Bryant.
But Chamberlain did more magnificent things, things that cold night in Hershey, Pa., can't touch.
Here's a sampling:
Try this from winter 1962: 62, 67, 62 and 100 points, all in eight days.  That season alone, Wilt scored 60 or more 15 times, 70 or more three times. Over his career, Chamberlain tallied 50 or more 118 times.
Stop already.
We all like streaks. Bryant's nine consecutive 40-point games got the attention of the basketball universe in 2003. Try this nine-game run by Chamberlain in the middle of the 1961-62 season: 78, 61, 55, 54, 52, 43, 50, 57 and 55. That's eight games above 50 and an average of 56.1.
He averaged 41 points over his first seven seasons. No one else has averaged 40 in one.
How did he do it?
Just how did Wilt come to dominate the record books?
The answer comes in four parts:
Athletic superiority
Wilt was a superior athlete. He had enormous strength, stamina and agility.
He would laugh at broadcasters nowadays who marvel at centers who "run the floor" as if this were something new. Wilt was doing that whenever he could in the 1950s at the University of Kansas. Then he played with the Harlem Globetrotters for the 1958-59 season. Trotters owner Abe Saperstein and Chamberlain agreed it would be best if Chamberlain played guard. Now, instead of "having three or four guys hanging on me," the way it was at Kansas, Chamberlain could develop his game. He moved more and frequently handled the ball. He delighted the crowd not by turning, muscling in and finger-rolling, but by driving to the basket and stuffing it.
In the pro game, he ran, and he employed a variety of scoops, finger rolls and even a fadeaway off the glass, which Bob Cousy contends Chamberlain developed because of the defensive presence of Bill Russell.
In addition, Chamberlain always had stamina. He averaged 46.3 minutes per game as a rookie. It is unusual for a center to lead the league in minutes, but Chamberlain did it eight times. In his 1992 book, "A View From Above," he said he was proudest of playing 3,882 minutes in the fabled '61-62 campaign. Including overtimes, that averages to 48.5 minutes per game. He missed only seven minutes over the entire 80-game season.
Even in his last three seasons -- 1971 through 1973, when he was 34-36 -- he averaged 44, 42 and 43 minutes a game. In 2005, the league leader was then 20-year-old LeBron James, with 42 minutes a game.
Sheer size
Chamberlain entered the NBA at 7-1 and 250 pounds, a redwood among pines. He used his size to dominate opponents.
It was true his first night. His highly touted NBA debut in October 1959 came before a sellout crowd at Madison Square Garden in New York. Chamberlain faced off against the Knicks' 6-8 pivot man, Charlie Tyra. Chamberlain had his way with Tyra, scoring 43 points and grabbing 28 rebounds in the Philadelphia Warriors' 118-109 victory.
On the league's eight teams that year, Detroit's Walter Dukes (7-0, 220 pounds) was the only other 7-footer. Five of the centers were 6-9 or 6-8, and one was 6-10; Boston's Bill Russell was only 6-9 (according to "Total Basketball"). Wilt took advantage, averaging 37 points and 27 rebounds in his rookie campaign.
By Chamberlain's landmark 1961-62 season two years later, there was but one significant change in altitude. A new team, the Chicago Packers, boasted a hot new rookie from the University of Indiana, Walt Bellamy. That season, the 6-11, 225-pound "Bells" finished first in field goal percentage (.519), second in scoring (31.6), and third in rebounding (19) behind Chamberlain and Russell.
Not until the 1964-65 season did another 6-11 starting center, Nate Thurmond, make an appearance. Thurmond, like Russell forever known as an inspired defender, took over Wilt's vacated spot when Chamberlain was traded from the San Francisco Warriors to the Philadelphia 76ers.
A different defensive era
Another difference in today's game and the game played during Chamberlain's peak years from the early to mid-1960s is defense. Defenses are more scientific now. There's more double-teaming. Zone defense is allowed. Different types of presses and traps are commonplace.
By way of whopping contrast, some might get the impression the early 1960s were a kind of Pleistocene Era in basketball when defense hadn't been thought of.
But that's not the way Chamberlain saw it.
"They're not playing me man-on-man," Chamberlain groused in his second season. "They're playing me men-on-man." He complained that the sagging defense being used to gang up on him amounted to an illegal zone. He even pressed the matter.
"I asked one official why he didn't invoke the no-zone ruling," Wilt recalled. "He told me, 'I haven't called a no-zone in this league in two years. I'm not going to start now.'"
Add to this that Wilt had "retired" briefly after his rookie season, complaining of the rough treatment being dished out. "The National Basketball Association has two standards of officiating," Wilt surmised, "one for the league as a whole, another for me, Wilt Chamberlain."
So Chamberlain attracted serious attention. After Chamberlain had to miss consecutive games in February 1960 to have two teeth removed because of flying elbows, his coach Neil Johnston fumed. "They're getting away with murder against Wilt," he said. "It would help if he would belt a few."
But that wasn't Wilt's style.
"If I come back next year and score less than I have, I may have to punch eight or nine guys in the face," Chamberlain said. "I may lose my poise. I don't want to."
A faster game
In Chamberlain's day, the game was much speedier. The 1962 Warriors led the league with 125.4 points per game. The entire league averaged 118.8 points and 107.7 attempted field goals per game. By comparison, in 2005, the league averaged 97.2 points and tried 80 field goals per game. Shots were hoisted earlier in the 24-second clock in Wilt's day.
Chamberlain certainly benefited from this pace, and he led the league in field goal attempts in each of his first seven seasons. That said, he made the most of his attempts, hitting 54 percent of his shots for his career.
Without a doubt, the game was different during Chamberlain's salad days. That is not to say Chamberlain wouldn't be great today. He certainly would be. Superior athletes make adjustments. But the slower pace of the game, the size of today's players and more sophisticated defenses surely would cut into his totals.
If Chamberlain were with us now, he probably would fold his arms across his chest and smile, proud as ever of his records. He might reply to this kind of analysis with a sneering reply: "Stop all the analysis. These are the records. Get back to me when someone breaks them."
Kenneth Shouler is the editor of and a writer for Total Basketball: The Ultimate Basketball Encyclopedia.

As the reports of player mutiny in Detroit began circulating throughout the NBA community on Friday, detailing disdain, disrespect and total disregard for a head coach -- and ultimately for a Pistons organization once considered the gold standard -- a palpable level of disappointment should have permeated throughout professional sports. And especially throughout the African-American community.
It's never good for their image when athletes, considered laborers in the eyes of the viewing public, get their backs up, start flexing their proverbial muscle and begin provoking changes instead of just speaking privately on the need for them. And when news came out that a group of has-beens, wannabes and wish-they-could'ves filling up the Pistons' roster had skipped Friday's shootaround before the game against the Philadelphia 76ers in an effort to expedite the firing of coach John Kuester, their flagrant idiocy and insensitivity put NBA players in a very bad light with the public.
Specifically because the league is primarily black.
Kuester will be out eventually, of course, if for no other reason than the fact that Pistons president Joe Dumars possesses the decency to relieve Kuester of having to coach a team of players who spew obscenities to his face and dare him to do something about it -- literally! And since a change in ownership is imminent in Auburn Hills, who's to say the new owner won't decide it's time for Dumars to exit the premises as well?
And then there's the plight of Billy Hunter, the executive director of the National Basketball Players Association, who has had a hard-enough time negotiating on behalf of 400-plus players for more than a decade against the likes of commissioner David Stern and 30 owners ravenous to curb player salaries. With this latest faux pas on the part of the players -- clearly oblivious or insensitive to the position this behavior puts them in the eyes of the league, the owners and the public -- one can only imagine how NBA players will be viewed now as their negotiations with the owners pick up.
There's never a time for insubordination. Not in today's wide world of sports. With NBA players averaging $5.8 million in salary, and on the verge of negotiating a collective bargaining deal that could amount to $10 billion or more in total value, folks don't care too much about the feelings of the modern-day athlete. Performance, results and behavior matter most.
But if we are being truthful, we can see that discipline and control climbed up the ladder of importance once LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh manipulated free agency last summer and teamed up in Miami.
None of them committed a crime. None of them were insubordinate. None of them broke any rules, or any laws. And these three friends are about as close to model NBA citizens as you'll find.
Still, nobody cares.
What the public cares about most was the image of proverbial inmates running the asylum. This analogy, however fraught with racial and socioeconomic baggage, is precisely the precarious lens through which this league of more than 70 percent black participation is being regarded. Players dictating matters to owners -- instead of it being the other way around -- and having the temerity to exhibit a prowess usually displayed by the older, white gentlemen who customarily cut the checks provoked feelings of discomfort among the public at large.
Yet on a relative basis, even the trio's maverick tendencies were more tolerable to the public than what the pampered and privileged Pistons did entering this weekend. As has been reported, Richard Hamilton and Chris Wilcox were fined for missing the shootaround, while Austin Daye and Rodney Stuckey drew fines for being late.
"In all fairness, some who missed shootaround actually said they weren't feeling good," one member of the Pistons organization told me over the weekend. "They had legitimate reasons. But there were others who talked openly about mutiny. Nobody appreciates the way Rip Hamilton has been treated, along with some other things.
"Bottom line: The players can't stand the coach. They don't respect him because they don't believe he relates to players. But no matter how you feel about him, you don't pull the kind of nonsense we displayed on the bench in Philadelphia on Friday night. It was embarrassing, humiliating. Dudes are lucky they're still wearing an NBA uniform after that."
This person wasn't talking just about players spewing profanity at Kuester or ignoring him in huddles during games, as some have done -- or their finding time to call him the worst coach they've ever seen to his face because they feel he's not personable and that he's scared of players, which has also happened. This particular member of the Pistons was alluding to witnessing several of the players laughing openly on the Pistons' bench as Kuester was being ejected from the game in Philadelphia on Friday.
Sadly, they appear clueless to the potential ramifications of their public disrespect.
This isn't 1982, when Magic Johnson purportedly forced out Paul Westhead. This isn't 2004, when Glenn Robinson, a.k.a. The Big Dog, used his belligerence and apathy to force Randy Ayers out of Philadelphia. This isn't even 2007, when Stephon Marbury had just finished becoming a nightmare for Larry Brown en route to becoming one for Isiah Thomas.
It's a new day. A new era. A time when the masses, still feeling the residual effects of an economic recession, are growing increasingly disenchanted with the idea of padding the wallets of those apparently unappreciative of the affluence they've captured.
The general sporting public is eager to establish some level of law and order, a return to the rules of yesteryear.
When Hunter is sitting on the opposite side of the table from Stern and the representatives for 30 owners who have reportedly lost hundreds of millions of dollars, they'll look for validation as to why players don't deserve the share of the pie they are getting.
They'll point to guaranteed years that have not translated into guaranteed productivity, and to expenditures that seem excessive. But mostly, they'll point to discipline, specifically the absence of it and the greater need for control so as to avoid the specter of a diminishing product.
And when that day comes, what better example to display than the Pistons.
Stephen A. Smith is a columnist for ESPN.com.

By signing a rejuvenated Nick Van Exel, the San Antonio Spurs are dusting off a vintage pistol that is ready to start firing, as in the days of old.
Van Exel is at his worst when he is playing with a bad team. But when Nick the Quick has something to play for, he is one of the most feared shooters in the league while donning his trademark Cheshire grin. And it's Van Exel's appetite for winning, combined with his ability to to fill a significant bench need for the Spurs, that made this odd couple a perfect fit when Van Exel was signed Monday night.
"Winning a championship would be the happiest feeling," Van Exel said. "In high school, I went to two state championship games and didn't win. In college with Cincinnati, I went to the Final Four and didn't win it. Now I have another chance. This is what you play for."
And because of what Van Exel plays for, NBA fans usually love him or hate him. There might not be a player in the league who wants to win more than Van Exel does. But that strong attribute also has worked strongly to his detriment.
Case in point: his experience with the Denver Nuggets, when he gave up nearly $13 million for the chance to win.
After growing tired of losing during the 2001-02 season with the then-doormat Nuggets, Van Exel asked team management to trade him. The final season of his contract was guaranteed at $12.8 million in the 2005-06 season. But for the orchestration of a 2002 seven-player trade to Dallas to work, Van Exel had to agree to make the final season a team option. The 1998 NBA All-Star, who averaged 17.7 points and 8.3 assists with the Nuggets from 1998 to 2002, said yes to a trade that made him forever a villain in Denver.
Van Exel was in heaven with the Mavericks. He regularly saw his young son, who lives in Dallas, and was close to his offseason Houston home. The 6-foot-1, 190-pounder also played a key role in getting Dallas to the Western Conference finals. An argument could be made that no Mav played bigger than Van Exel during the 2003 NBA postseason, when he scored 19.5 points per game, including a team-best 25.3 points per game against Sacramento.
So what was Van Exel's reward? A trade to the lowly Golden State Warriors in 2003, soon to be followed by a trade to the equally lowly Portland Trail Blazers in 2004.
After initially fighting the idea of going back to a loser, Van Exel agreed to play with the Warriors, but neither the spirit nor the flesh was willing. He shot a career-low 39 percent and played in just 39 games during the 2003-04 season. And with Portland, he averaged a career-low 11.1 points and a career-low-tying 4.3 assists in 53 games last season and contemplated retirement because of knee woes.
Van Exel's decision to leave Denver for Dallas eventually cost him $12.8 million because the Blazers released him this summer at their option. But now that he is in a championship situation in San Antonio, after signing to a veteran one-year deal paying close to $1.2 million, Van Exel is more concerned about the lost chance to win than the lost millions.
"That's how it goes," Van Exel said. "I don't have any regrets. At the time, I knew that I could suffer down the line. I won't go cry about it. The thing that did hurt was the Dallas part. They traded me to a team that I didn't want to go to. That made me more upset than anything.
"I'm really excited about San Antonio," Van Exel added.
The Miami Heat liked Van Exel, but he said they didn't make an offer since they still have eyes on coveted free agent Michael Finley. As crazy as it might sound, he also was interested in coming back to Denver, and the Nuggets seemed to have mild interest, too. However, the phone call Van Exel was expecting from Denver coach George Karl never arrived. Instead, the Spurs locked up the 12-year veteran guard and still have hopes of signing Finley.
"Maybe that's the reason they win," Van Exel's agent, Tony Dutt, said of the Spurs. "They were willing to pull the trigger."
Expect Van Exel to compete for the 2005-06 NBA Sixth Man of the Year title. The Spurs have one of the NBA's best young point guards in Tony Parker. But Parker, still developing, desperately needed someone to spell him last season. Rookie Beno Udrih couldn't fill the need and was a turnover waiting to happen in the playoffs.
With Van Exel, Parker can drop his 37.3 minutes per game average to a more manageable, legs-saving number. The Spurs also can use Nick in Robert Horry fashion, resting him against the weaker teams, thus giving Udrih a chance to develop.
Furthermore, Spurs coach Gregg Popovich can do some experimenting with Van Exel by bringing him in to play with Parker and All-Star Manu Ginobili. Put him on the same side of the court as forward Tim Duncan and the superstar's life in the post will get a little easier.
"We are very happy to have Nick as a part of our team," Popovich was quoted as saying in a Spurs press release. "His leadership and skills will be assets at both ends of the floor."
But can Van Exel hold up under all these expectations? Maybe so. Although his 33-year-old knees (soon to be 34) aren't getting any younger, he says they are feeling the best they have in years and he has been working out since the season ended.
The Spurs already had the playoffs' all-time greatest clutch shooter on the bench in Horry. Adding Van Exel brings one of the NBA's most underrated clutch shooters to the team. And if he is healthy, the move also will fill a veteran hole which will solidify the efforts to bring another championship to San Antonio, while quenching Van Exel's longtime thirst to win the big one.
Marc J. Spears, who covers the NBA for The Denver Post, is a contributor to ESPN.com.

Editor's note: Every Friday, ESPN.com senior NBA writer Marc Stein takes you around the league for the latest news and notes in "Coast to Coast."
If you watched Montreal and Edmonton skate on an outdoor rink recently, and if you thought it'd be quite cool if the NBA tried to do the same with a regular-season game at Rucker Park or maybe Venice Beach, you're not alone.
"I can remember, over the years, someone occasionally throwing it out there as a possibility," NBA deputy commissioner Russ Granik said.
Yet it hasn't gone any further than that and probably won't. Intriguing as the idea sounds -- and it certainly was a smash for the hockey lads -- the league's feeling is that weather conditions would impact an NBA game much more than an NHL game.
The surfaces for indoor and outdoor hockey games aren't nearly as different as they'd be in basketball. And beyond the obvious issues that rain or snow would present, Granik also listed wind as a major obstacle. "I don't really think that we would look at it seriously," he said.
Zones aren't going anywhere, folks
As yet, according to Granik, there has been no clamor from teams to outlaw the three-season-old legality of zone defenses, in spite of Tracy McGrady's vows to "write a letter" to kickstart the anti-zone campaign.
Suggestions for further tweaks to league rules are inevitable at the next league competition committee meeting at All-Star Weekend in February -- Larry Brown's suggestion that the 3-point line be moved in to the international distance (21-plus feet) has some intrigue, for example. Yet the likelihood that the zone will be abolished in the near future is roughly zero at present.
"We think the game looks a lot better than it did three years ago," Granik said, acknowledging that there is concern about some of the low scores seen in the first month but that "it can't just be all about points."
"I don't think we're going back to illegal defense," Granik quipped.
West rolls the dice on Bonzi
John Nash wasn't kidding. Portland's new general manager was determined to unload Bonzi Wells without regard to equal value and achieved just that, taking back Wesley Person and a first-round pick that might not be especially high, if Memphis can continue its surprising start and make a legit playoff run.
From the Memphis end, this was more like the sort of gamble we've come to expect from Jerry West, who has been more like his old, aggressive Lakers self since the ill-fated selection of Drew Gooden with his first draft pick.
West spent much of the summer trying to use the package of a pick and Person (who's in the final year of his contract) in exchange for a center; Michael Olowokandi was a prime sign-and-trade target before Kandi signed with Minnesota. Wells obviously isn't a center but, for all his faults, he has more talent than anyone on West's roster not named Pau Gasol. The Grizz really didn't need another swingman, but if West and Hubie Brown can rehabilitate Bonzi like they've cleaned up Jason Williams, it's an interesting gamble.
Getting Wells away from Rasheed Wallace can't hurt Portland's prospects, either.
Briefly
Just as Danny Ainge scoffed at the suggestion this week that coach Jim O'Brien was in any immediate jeopardy, you can apparently say the same about Suns coach Frank Johnson. By all accounts, Johnson is going to be given some time to try to generate the missing consistency and hunger from a team that has not coped well with ramped-up expectations. In New Jersey, meanwhile, there is no clear-cut replacement for Byron Scott, which figures to give Scott the whole season to revive the Nets. It's difficult, though, to see Rod Thorn letting the Nets continue to sink, with Jersey carrying a 2-6 home record into the weekend after an 18-1 start at home last season. Larry Drew didn't get the Lakers' interim job when Del Harris was dismissed in 1999, but he's the interim favorite if the Nets did make an in-season change. ... Ainge, incidentally, does remain very hot to make a trade, with Eric Williams and Tony Battie very available. ... Theme of the Lakers' season, courtesy of Karl Malone: In Spite Of. "We got a saying in this locker room -- In Spite Of," Malone shares. "Meaning in spite of everything that's happening, in spite of what people are saying, we can still go out and play the game. That's our little saying, and now y'all know it. That's our belief."  Courtesy of Kobe Bryant, the Lakers' main rivals are: "The Spurs, because the last five championships have been between us, and it'd have to be Sacramento, just because last year they had a great chance to win it all and were very unfortunate that Chris Webber went down. They'll be back at full strength shortly and they'll be back in the hunt again. ... The perils of magazine writing and its early deadlines are illustrated by No. 2 on Esquire's list of 34 Reasons to Be Optimistic About 2004: "Jason Kidd and Alonzo Mourning, together at last."
Marc Stein is the senior NBA writer for ESPN.com. To e-mail him, click here. Also, click here to send a question for possible use on ESPNEWS.

Mike Krzyzewski couldn't get Kobe Bryant to Duke for a semester in 1996. He couldn't even get Shaun Livingston to Duke in 2004.
So the prospect of seven years' worth of Kobe in L.A. must sound pretty good about now.
Of course, that would force Coach K to walk away from his Duke empire, where he's essentially bulletproof, so it's hardly a slam dunk that even the most prestigious hot seat in the NBA will manage to lure him away.
There is probably only one job in basketball that could get Krzyzewski to so much as consider making his own leap to the NBA. It also helps the Lakers that there is a massive challenge attached to their offer -- following nine-ringed Phil Jackson onto that hot seat with Bryant apparently hand-picking Coach K to replace the Zenmeister. As a package, all that must intrigue the 57-year-old, who basically has nothing left to accomplish at the NCAA level.
Just the same, all that still might not be enough to do it.
Yet you can't fault the Lakers for trying, just as you can't question Krzyzewski's desire to listen. Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak has been wanting to broaden the search, and the pool of available coaches at the pro level with the stature to take charge of a team that still could feature Bryant and the trade-seeking Shaquille O'Neal starts and ends with Rudy Tomjanovich. Trying to lure Coach K to the NBA, as Boston and Portland tried in the 1990s, seems so obvious now that it's actually public knowledge.
On the Coach K side, meanwhile, how do you ignore the Lakers if they call? If they call, you at least hear them out. You're obligated.
Will he actually take the job? Vitale, Bilas and Katz know a lot more about the man than I do, but what we all know is that he's the quintessential college coach who has never been especially fond of the NBA way ... and who won't be overwhelmed by NBA coaching money because of what he earns as college hoops' modern-day Wooden.
What I heard Thursday is that, according to well-placed sources in the college game, he didn't sound at all envious (or accepting) of Mike Montgomery's recent decision to leave Stanford for the Golden State Warriors. Which makes it more than odd that Krzyzewski would now agree to make the same jump and take on a task that often tormented Jackson, who had decades of experience dealing with NBA power struggles as a player and a coach.
What I know for sure is that frustration with the evolution of the college game better not be the deciding factor if Krzyzewski decides to liven up this already-crazy summer by accepting Kupchak's offer.
Maddening as it might be to deal with the strictures of the NCAA rule book, and losing players to the NBA draft before they even start classes, daily life with the Laker circus can lead to regular doses of frustration Coach K can scarcely imagine.
Especially if Shaq comes back and Coach K, after ruling his universe for so long, finds himself serving as the Lakers' new Shaq vs. Kobe referee.
Losing Livingston and Luol Deng to the draft could be a pleasant experience by comparison.
Marc Stein is the senior NBA writer for ESPN.com. To e-mail him, click here. Also, click here to send a question for possible use on ESPNEWS.

Hopefully, you had a happy and healthy Hanukkah, Festivus and Christmas.
Hopefully, you are safely tucked away with family for the approaching New Year celebrations.
Hopefully, you know what else the calendar calls for now.
You remember, don't you? With almost everyone in the league having played at least 27 games after Tuesday -- except for slowpokes Milwaukee (23) and Charlotte (24) -- it's time to take stockings of the season.
Because one-third of it is already gone.
West MVP of the Trimester
Steve Nash, PG, Phoenix
If the Suns can maintain their tidy 73-9 pace, Nash has to appear among the top five on every voter's official MVP ballot at the end of the season. Has to. And let's face it -- that probably happens if the Suns win 60, because his impact in the desert has been that dramatic. I'm even starting to think he has a chance to muscle past the favored twosome of Kevin Garnett and Tim Duncan to become the first recognized point guard since Magic Johnson in 1990 to actually win the award, and I'd love to see passing -- you remember passing, right? -- rewarded in a league where it's almost extinct. Nash's detractors are obviously wondering if his body will hold up for the rest of the season, but $66 million over six seasons is looking less outrageous by the day. As we told you before the season, Nash getting spurned by the Mavs sparked him like the Canadians of his youth who laughed when he told them he'd be in the NBA someday.
East MVP of the Trimester
Shaquille O'Neal, C, Miami
You could argue that Shaq hasn't been the most productive player on his own team. You could likewise argue that LeBron James has been more dominant individually than Dwyane Wade. Go ahead. We prefer to look at what Shaq has done for Wade, Damon Jones and Udonis Haslem in terms of making the game easier, even though it looks like he's coasting some nights to save something for the playoffs. As D-Jones, the league's most prolific 3-point marksman, so eloquently stated the other day when I asked him if Shaq really does make things so much better for the players around him: "Can I curse?" Jones said. "(Bleep) yeah."
Coach of the Trimester
Nate McMillan, Seattle
Nate Dog doesn't have a coach on the floor like Mike D'Antoni does. D'Antoni also didn't have to deal with a 30-point loss to the Clippers on Opening Night. There have been other teams winning more than expected in the season's first third: Johnny Davis' Orlando Magic, Eddie Jordan's Washington Wiz, even Bernie Bickerstaff's Bobcats -- but the Sonics have established a one-for-all team culture that didn't seem possible when they were 0-1. The coach has to get a nice slice of the credit, especially since Nate Dog is a free agent just like Ray Allen.
Rookie of the Trimester
Emeka Okafor, C, Charlotte
Robo-rebounder Dwight Howard has coped with the preps-to-pros jump as well as the Magic could have hoped, but Okafor has been even better. Confession time: I thought he looked more than a stride or two off the NBA pace when I saw him practicing with Team USA before the Olympics, but Okafor couldn't be more dependable for this club of never-quitters. At last count, Okafor has 16 consecutive double-doubles, the longest streak for a rookie since Jerry Lucas did it twice during the 1963-64 season.
Defensive Player of the Trimester
Andrei Kirilenko, F, Utah
I know, I know. You're thinking AK-47 has missed too many games to be considered here. Tough. Kirilenko's injury is what clinches his name in this spot; look at what's happened to the Jazz since they lost him.
Comeback Player of the Trimester
Grant Hill, SF, Orlando
I hate to be the guy who's always reminding folks that this award no longer exists. There can't be a Comeback Player of the Year in the NBA, only a Most Improved Player (Chris Mihm, Nazr Mohammed, Brevin Knight, Drew Gooden and Jamaal Tinsley are among the early leaders there). So this is the place to recognize Hill, with the hope that we can do it again after the next two trimesters if his recovery (touch wood) continues. January is a pivotal karma month; all four of Hill's ankle surgeries have been January operations.
Division of the Trimester
Southeast
You haven't heard many Southleast jokes lately. Or Southworst jokes. That's because every team in this division, save woebegone Atlanta, is winning more than the preseason consensus suggested.
Conference of the Trimester
West
You're right. Probably a category we should scrap, with the head-to-head ledger at 98-68 in the West's favor.
Surprise of the Trimester
Seattle SuperSonics
This is a team category, and the Sonics just shade it over Orlando and Charlotte. I know we've harped on it a lot, but every time they put a streak together, I find myself harkening back to the team that looked like it was ready to mail in the season after one game. Phoenix, you say? It's tough to really consider the Suns a surprise any more. You expect the Suns to win now, don't you?
Disappointment of the Trimester
Houston Rockets
Again, this is a team category, and Houston's problems are the most striking. Detroit is the strongest threat to the Rockets here, because the champs have racked up more excuses than victories so far, but the Tracy McGrady-Yao Ming partnership has been a deadly duo exactly once so far, when T-Mac and Yao combined for 74 points in the recent win over Toronto. Expectations were probably too high in Houston given the Rockets' holes at the point and in the athleticism department, but sub-.500 ball is still unacceptable.
Biggest Disappointment of the Trimester
Indiana at Detroit, Nov. 19
No explanation necessary. Is there?
Game of the Trimester
Phoenix at Seattle, Dec. 17
Even though Shaq-Kobe I on Christmas Day actually made a nice run at living up to its billing, the best basketball delivered to date came from the two teams -- both lottery teams last season, don't forget -- thriving most in today's new world of limited arm contact on the perimeter. The Sonics were up seven late when the Suns went on one of their gaudy runs and won 112-110 in a nice credibility grab in front of ESPN's cameras.
All-Stars of the Trimester
We leave the All-Star ballots for the fans in real life, but this is how we'd be voting if we did punch a ballot, going by positions as the players are listed.
We repeat: All selections are based on where the players are listed on the official ballots. Amare Stoudemire should be a starter in the West over Yao, but he's listed as a forward. And you can't, with a conscience, put Amare ahead of Garnett or Duncan just yet. It would likewise help the program if LeBron were listed as a forward, because the East is overloaded with guards. So overloaded that I can't put Allen Iverson, the league's top scorer, higher than No. 3 on my ballot, and Steve Francis no higher than No. 4. Jamison and Jefferson get my forward votes because Jermaine O'Neal has only played nine games, and because they trump Hill and Okafor by a shade.
Marc Stein is the senior NBA writer for ESPN.com. To e-mail him, click here. Also, click here to send a question for possible use on ESPNEWS.

Tony Massenburg has played with countless teammates in four countries on a professional basketball odyssey that has taken him to 15 different teams, 12 in the NBA.
Yet he doesn't need much of a pause when you ask him to rewind through his mental travel journal and estimate how many times he has heard a fellow member of the Spurs, Hornets, Celtics, Warriors, Clippers, Raptors, 76ers, Nets, Grizzlies, Rockets, Jazz or Kings say he wanted to give steroids a try.
Never is the estimate.
"It's hard enough to get guys in this league to lift weights," said Massenburg, who is back in San Antonio with the team that drafted him out of Maryland in 1990.
The NBA, like any other professional sports league, has faced substance-abuse scandals before, be it a growing cocaine habit that nearly ruined the league's reputation in the 1970s or a famed New York Times story in 1997 that alleged rampant marijuana and alcohol use among NBA players.
But steroids?
You really don't hear the word in NBA locker rooms unless reporters start asking questions about it, or until a congressional hearing on steroid use in baseball flickers onto a locker-room TV. Tuesday will mark another new and rare exception when detailed information about the NBA's steroid policy is formally presented to Congress, as requested by the same congressional committee that conducted baseball's steroid hearings.
The overwhelming belief among those interviewed on the topic in recent days and months is that NBA players do not see steroids as desirable or performance-enhancing for basketball.
"I can't remember even hearing anybody talk about it," said Orlando's Grant Hill. "You don't want to be naive, but we have our own issues, and steroids is not one of them."
Said one veteran NBA athletic trainer who wished not to be identified: "In the basketball culture, players want to be long and athletic. They want to be lean, and they would be fearful that added bulk would affect their lateral quickness. The baseball player, the power lifter, the sprinter  they're looking for power in short bursts. Those sports are built around short bursts of activity with long periods of rest and recovery. Basketball is continuous activity with short periods of rest and recovery."
Adds Dallas Mavericks team physician Dr. Tarek Souryal: "Steroids is really a factor in power sports. Football. Baseball if you're a power hitter. You're not going to see it in hockey, in soccer, in basketball. When you're playing every other night for 82 games, endurance is really what you're after, and steroids actually hurt that."
Commissioner David Stern agreed with all of those sentiments during his semiannual state-of-the-league address at All-Star Weekend in February. Yet Stern has to know attitudes could always change, and also that the odds say that there has undoubtedly been some level of experimentation in a league with more than 400 players. So he's determined to toughen the NBA's current anti-steroid policy  by mandating more frequent testing  just to "eliminate that even as a question," hoping to shield the NBA from even a tiny fraction of the increasing fan skepticism toward baseball's record-breaking feats of strength in recent seasons.
It's telling to note that the NBA Players Association has offered no known resistance to Stern's intentions in ongoing labor negotiations with the owners. The policy in place since 1998 calls for a five-game suspension for the first positive steroid finding, a 10-game suspension for the second offense and 25 games for subsequent positive tests.
"Watching what's swirling around [in other sports], it just seems to be prudent to say, 'Let's just get that issue out of any possibility,'" Stern said. "It's not a problem at the present time that we think we have. But it's a potent issue as it relates to baseball and the media around it, and we think it would be smart of us to deal with it."
There actually have been three steroid-related suspensions meted out by Stern's office since 1998, when the NBA introduced steroid testing. Yet all three of the suspended players  Don MacLean, Matt Geiger and Soumaila Samake  insisted at the time that they had merely taken supplements that included banned substances while recovering from injuries.


The fact that the NBA makes its steroid suspensions public  a policy baseball has only just adopted  is a strong deterrent for any NBA player thinking about sampling steroids. There is also serious debate among experts in the field whether steroids really serve as a recovery boost during injury rehabilitation.
"I think it's the other way around," Souryal said.
The aforementioned athletic trainer adds: "Our guys are much more interested in learning about the negative effects of anti-inflammatories as opposed to asking about steroids."
Memphis' Shane Battier echoed Massenburg's assertion that steroids are unlikely to appeal to NBA players, now or in the future, when weight training appeals to so few.
"Something you've got to understand is that basketball players just don't like to lift weights," Battier said. "Most of us would rather be out playing ball. We all grew up either on the playground or in the gym. If we're going to spend time working on our game, we're going to be on the court."
Hill remembers hearing similar views from a certain Michael Jordan when MJ returned from his dalliance with baseball in the spring of 1995.
"During that offseason, we did the 'Space Jam' movie and I played with him a couple days on the Warner Brothers lot," Hill said. "I remember one of the things he said was that he got too big from weight training in baseball. He needed to lift to get stronger to hit and trained his muscles differently for baseball.
"He got stronger, maybe a little heavier, and that may have helped him with his hitting. But I think it hurt him on the basketball court when he first came back. After 'Space Jam' he came back [the following season] not quite as big, not quite as heavy, and he was great again. Muscles and extra weight and extra size are not conducive to what basketball is all about."
So if there's resistance to visiting the weight room, a serious anti-steroids sentiment among NBA players shouldn't be too surprising.
"Steroids are not going to make you put the ball in the basket," Massenburg said. "And if you get real big and pumped up, you're not going to be able to move very well. And if you can't move, no matter how big and strong you are, in this league people are just going to be able to go right around you.
"Guys in the league are strong without being really, really big. Most guys' bodies are so lean that I think people underestimate how strong NBA guys really are. Because of the nature of our sport and the total body movement and the 82-game schedule, it's hard for most guys to carry a lot of muscle mass."
With a nickname like T-Mass, and all the different people and environments he has encountered in his basketball life, Massenburg should know.
Marc Stein is the senior NBA writer for ESPN.com. To e-mail him, click here. Also, click here to send a question for possible use on ESPNEWS.

It appears that Joe Johnson's wish to swap a supporting role in Phoenix for star status in Atlanta is on the verge of being granted.



NBA front-office sources told ESPN.com that the Suns and Hawks have locked into serious trade discussions that could send Johnson to the Eastern Conference via sign-and-trade as early as Tuesday afternoon.
The proposed deal, according to sources, would bring guard Boris Diaw and two lottery-protected future first-round picks to Phoenix -- along with a trade exception in the $5 million range -- after Johnson signs a contract under terms established by Atlanta: $70 million over five years with an estimated balloon payment of $20 million up front.
Johnson, a restricted free agent, has been planning for weeks to sign a five-year, $70 million offer sheet from Atlanta as soon as the league's moratorium on signings is lifted Tuesday at noon. On Thursday, Johnson stunned Suns managing partner Robert Sarver by asking Sarver directly not to match the offer, telling his boss that he prefers to continue his career as a Hawk. On Friday, at teammate Steve Nash's charity game in Toronto, Johnson revealed the request to ESPN.com and spoke excitedly about the opportunity to play point guard with the Hawks.
After maintaining for weeks that it would match any offer sheet Johnson signs, Phoenix chose a new course this weekend, ultimately deciding it was better for team chemistry to pursue a sign-and-trade with Atlanta instead of investing huge sums in a player who wants to leave.
Johnson's increasingly imminent departure is a coup for the desperate Hawks and an undeniable blow to the Suns, who have long considered the versatile swingman no less critical to last season's overwhelming success than any of their three All-Stars: Amare Stoudemire, Shawn Marion and Nash. Next to Nash, the league's newly minted MVP, Johnson was the only other dependable playmaker on a 62-win team and shot a deadly 47.8 percent from 3-point range.
Phoenix, though, has always liked Diaw, a rugged defender and underrated ballhandler from France, and sees him as part of a three- or four-man platoon to replace Johnson, who desires a bigger role than he can have with the star-laden Suns.
Phoenix struck a verbal agreement with Utah's Raja Bell, another defensive specialist with an underrated offensive game, on the first day of free agency. It also still has swingman Jim Jackson, who filled in ably for Johnson during a second-round dismissal of Dallas.
Johnson's exit would likewise spark the Suns to intensify their pursuit of the Dallas Mavericks' Michael Finley. Dallas is expected to waive Finley via the new "amnesty clause" that gives teams a one-time opportunity to release a player without paying any further luxury tax on his contract, unless the Mavericks can trade Finley to an Eastern Conference team before the Aug. 15 deadline for using the amnesty provision.
As an amnesty casualty, Finley would still receive what's left on his Mavericks contract (nearly $52 million) and also have the opportunity to choose his next team in free agency. The list of teams lining up to bid for Finley is a long one, featuring NBA Finals foes San Antonio and Detroit and virtually every other playoff contender in the league, but Phoenix possesses a couple of recruiting advantages.
Finley is received warmly by Suns fans to this day, after Phoenix drafted him No. 21 overall in 1995. The 32-year-old will also be lobbied hard by Nash, who remains one of his closest friends in the league -- along with Dirk Nowitzki -- after the trio's long run together in Dallas. Finley joined Johnson in attendance at Nash's charity game in Toronto, even though his ongoing recovery from June ankle surgery prevented him from playing.
The concern for the Suns is that, with only limited free-agent resources left this summer, they'll be outbid for Finley by most of his suitors.
Landing Johnson, meanwhile, ranks as a huge catch for Hawks general manager Billy Knight, who has struggled since last summer to convert his considerable salary-cap space into a marquee acquisition. Having whiffed a year ago in its attempts to score free agents such as Kenyon Martin and Erick Dampier, Atlanta has been quietly optimistic that it would be able to import Johnson as a point guard to team with its cadre of young swingmen: Al Harrington, Josh Childress, Josh Smith and Marvin Williams, selected No. 2 overall in the recent draft.
"I love the idea," Johnson told ESPN.com on Friday. "I'd love that, having the ball in my hands. I think I'm a great shooter, but that's where I think I'm most effective, making decisions."
In his first extended interview about his future since free agency began Friday, Johnson said his desire to leave the Suns involves "a lot of things," starting with contentious negotiations on a contract extension last October that broke off with sides about $5 million apart. Johnson was rankled further earlier this month when, after a breakout season for himself and the team, Phoenix offered only $60 million over six years.
Yet sources close to the situation also insist that Johnson is most unhappy with what he perceives as his standing as a "fourth wheel" behind Stoudemire, Marion and especially Nash. The native of nearby Arkansas would instantly have his own team to run in Atlanta and become a franchise face for a club teeming with inexperience.
Because the Hawks are so far under the salary cap, and because Johnson will become a base-year compensation player after signing his new deal, Phoenix won't be required in a trade to take back contracts in the neighborhood of Johnson's first-year salary of $12 million. Diaw has two seasons left on his contract totaling just over $3 million.
On top of the draft picks in the deal, the trade exception -- good for one year -- gives Phoenix the ability to take back more salary in a future trade than it gives up and thus provides another vehicle for acquiring a contributor.
Given Sarver's stated aversion to letting his annual payroll stray far beyond $50 million, replacing Johnson with Bell, Diaw, two draft picks, a trade exception and perhaps even Finley (if the Suns are so fortunate) holds considerable appeal. Although sources insist that Sarver was intent on matching an offer sheet to Johnson, doing so would have put Phoenix in the rare position of carrying four players who earn roughly $50 million by themselves, with Stoudemire soon to receive a maximum contract extension that would kick in starting with the 2006-07 season. And Kurt Thomas, another recent acquisition from New York in a trade for Quentin Richardson, has three seasons left on his deal at an average of more than $7 million.
"You've got to go where you're comfortable," Johnson said Friday in explaining his wish to swap Phoenix for Atlanta.
With the Hawks unable to sign the restricted free agent outright, a sign-and-trade has emerged as the most comfortable compromise for Johnson and the two teams involved.
Marc Stein is the senior NBA writer for ESPN.com. To e-mail him, click here. Also, click here to send a question for possible use on ESPNEWS.

Is 81 enough?
Eighty-One, people.
I'd say so. I'd say all those pre-Christmas wails about Kobe Bryant ripping us off by hanging 62 points on the Dallas Mavericks in three quarters and then sitting out the fourth can suddenly be recalled with a chuckle.
Turns out Kobe's Dec. 20 detonation was not a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for No. 8 to make a run at 80-something points. No one was cheated after all.


Maybe Kobe and his pal Phil Jackson, when they reached that joint decision to stop abusing the Mavs because the Lakers were up by 34, knew they wouldn't have to wait long for another chance at it during an up-for-grabs game.
Why not? You can believe anything on a night like this.
Kobe's chance dutifully materialized almost exactly a month later, on a Sunday that was supposed to belong to gridiron football. You know. The table-setter for Super Bowl Extra Large and all that.
Sorry, NFL.
Sunday will be remembered as the best day in the NBA in a long, long time. There was a nationally televised buzzer beater in Minnesota from Philadelphia's Andre Iguodala to cap a 19-point comeback in the afternoon ... and then Seattle's Ray Allen beating Phoenix with a way-out buzzer bomb at the horn of overtime No. 2 in a 152-149 throwback thriller ... and then simply the greatest individual performance ever recorded: Bryant's 81 points in a 122-104 come-from-behind victory over the Toronto Raptors.
Yes. Better than Wilt Chamberlain's 100-point night.
You'll recall, sadly, that there's no footage of Chamberlain rumbling for triple digits in Hershey, Pa., on March 2, 1962. Which makes it tough to commission an in-depth analysis comparing Wilt's feat (scoring 100 of his team's 169 points that day) to Kobe's (81 of 122). But there's really no need. The folks who did see the 100-pointer and the game's historians would be forced to tell you that the entire fourth quarter was a back-and-forth scramble between one team trying desperately to get Wilt the record and another trying to keep him from getting it. Wilt himself is quoted on the Basketball Hall of Fame's Web site as calling that fourth quarter "a farce."
In the forthcoming flood of Kobe replays, you'll see that there's nothing farcical about Bryant hauling the Lakers back from a 71-53 deficit. You'll see a Raps team that kept the game sufficiently close in the final quarter to keep Kobe out there shooting, and nary an intentional foul by the Lakers to get the ball back (as Wilt needed).
Against a Toronto team that somehow held him to 11 points when the teams met in early December -- which also has to be some historic footage now -- Bryant wound up with 55 points after halftime. Fifty-five. For a little perspective, please note that matches the best scoring game in Kareem Abdul-Jabbar's career. That's the same Abdul-Jabbar who, before becoming a Lakers assistant coach, was merely the NBA's all-time scoring leader.
Don't forget, furthermore, that no less an authority than Michael Jordan has been known to say that a perimeter player has it way harder when it comes to making a legitimate run at Wilt's record, taking an array of longer and/or tougher shots. Factor in the ball-handling responsibilities and the energy required to play defense all over the floor and you can understand MJ's theory. This might also help back it up: Jordan himself topped out at 69 points as his one-night best and needed overtime to get there.
No offense to the late, great Chamberlain, but he was better positioned to dominate a box score back then with the overwhelming size and strength advantages he possessed, especially given the lack of defensive sophistication in those days. Some of you will inevitably counter with the claim that Kobe had the benefit of a 3-point line, but don't exaggerate. Having the long-ball option added only seven extra points to Bryant's total.
With a mere 74, he'd still have registered the richest single-game scoring output in NBA history by anyone not named Wilt.
With 81, so soon after so many opined that he had blown his chance to ever scrape that stratosphere, Bryant has reminded us what we all should know by now about him.
Whatever you think about the game's foremost love-him-or-loathe-him face, and the ongoing debate about how much he shoots, you always have to be ready for What's Next with No. 8.
Chances are it'll be something to dissect for days and days.
Chances are, on the thinnest and neediest team in Jackson's ring-filled history, it won't be the last time Kobe has the forum to fling 40-something shots at history.
Marc Stein is the senior NBA writer for ESPN.com. To e-mail him, click here.

You've undoubtedly got questions about Saturday night's fight at Madison Square Garden.
We've got the first batch of answers for what happens next to the New York Knicks and Denver Nuggets after a brawl that resulted in five ejections for each team and, at least for the moment, diverts some attention away from the Nuggets' front-runner status in the Allen Iverson Sweepstakes.
How long will the league's leading scorer be suspended?
A punch -- whether or not it connects -- gets you an automatic one-game suspension.
The severity of Carmelo Anthony's penalty from there, and for all the main players in this fracas, is a case-by-case call by NBA commissioner David Stern and VP Stu Jackson. Whether punches land, where they land and who's responsible for escalation all factor in, as does leaving the bench to join in.
The footage you've seen puts at least five players in unquestioned trouble.
1. New York's Mardy Collins took J.R. Smith down with the initial hard, two-handed foul that can't be pardoned no matter how frustrated the Knicks were with what they perceived as Denver intentionally running up the score.
2. New York's Nate Robinson was the first to escalate the situation by wildly confronting Smith and other Nuggets.
3. Smith went after Robinson and the ensuing tangle spilled into a fan section, not far from where Knicks chairman James Dolan sits.
4. Anthony became the other chief escalator by throwing a right hook at Collins ... a punch that came just when things appeared to be settling down.
5. New York's Jared Jeffries went so hard chasing after 'Melo in response to the punch that Jeffries fell down and still had to be restrained when he got up.
The best early estimates: A minimum of five games for Anthony and Robinson ... and possibly longer. Suspensions for Collins, Smith and Jeffries would appear to be in the range of 1-to-3 games.
Don't forget, though, that Stern has been exerting his authority more than ever since the infamous Detroit-Indiana brawl at the Palace of Auburn Hills on Nov. 19, 2004. Keeping that in mind, it wouldn't be a shocker to see all of those estimates fall short.
The Nuggets and Anthony, of course, stand to lose the most from a lengthy suspension. Denver, at 13-9, is clinging to seventh in the Western Conference with roughly one-fourth of the season gone. Given Anthony's importance to the Nuggets -- he's averaging a league-best 31.6 points -- they'd likely feel fortunate to win any game he misses.
For 'Melo himself, this episode is bound to take a chunk out of his newfound darling status ... just days after he donated $1.5 million to fund a youth development center in his hometown of Baltimore. After a variety of setbacks in his first three pro seasons, Anthony was widely regarded as the standout performer on a Team USA squad that finished a disappointing third in last summer's World Championships in Japan and has been hailed in recent weeks for the increasing maturity in his game in terms of shot selection and leadership.
How much harsher will the penalties be because the fight crossed into fan territory?
It's a factor for sure.
Comparisons will inevitably be drawn to the Palace brawl, but that's not a correct comparison. This wasn't even close to that.
Fans at Madison Square Garden, for starters, were innocent bystanders Saturday night. At no point did we see intentional interaction between players and fans.
However ...
Fans sitting along the baseline were endangered by the Robinson-Smith scrap, something the league office won't ignore.
For proof, we refer you to the better comparison, which was less than a year ago.
In Seattle, on Jan. 11, 2006, Orlando's Keyon Dooling and Seattle's Ray Allen wound up in the first row of seats along the sideline after fighting.
Dooling was suspended for five games for throwing a punch at Allen (which did not connect) and for what the league described as "attempting to confront [Allen] in the hallway following his ejection." Allen was suspended for three games.
How soon will the NBA announce the suspensions and fines?
Neither team plays Sunday and both have games Monday night. That gives Stern's staff a day-plus to conduct an investigation before the Knicks or Nuggets play again.
The inquiry will begin with NBA security personnel interviewing numerous players from both teams and include an extensive review of raw footage of the game from a variety of angles -- footage that wasn't seen on the game broadcast or initial TV news reports -- in an attempt to determine exactly who did what.
Yet as much as the league would undoubtedly love to release its ruling on Sunday, when much of the nation is preoccupied with the NFL, Monday is more likely given how much has to be examined.
How closely will the two head coaches be looked at?
You can accuse Denver's George Karl of leaving his starters in way too long ... but you can't punish him for it. That's not an NBA crime. Not even if he did so as a way to convey his contempt for Knicks coach Isiah Thomas, as fallout from the offseason firing of Karl's close friend Larry Brown.
Thomas, by contrast, might be facing more than accusations. You can be sure the league will investigate suggestions that Collins' hard foul on Smith came via mandate from the Knicks' bench.
That sort of directive would be difficult to prove, but ESPN.com's Chris Sheridan reported Saturday night that Thomas, according to a member of the Nuggets' organization, warned Anthony not to venture near the paint not long before Collins' foul.
Which could put Thomas under the microscope as well, if similar accounts are conveyed to league personnel during Sunday's interview process.
Can players be traded while serving a suspension?
This is a pertinent question given Denver's well-chronicled pursuit of Allen Iverson.
The answer?
It appears to be, in the words of one Western Conference executive reached Saturday night, "a gray area."
It's believed that there is no language in the NBA's operations manual that specifically deals with teams' ability to trade a suspended player. The teams would likely require special permission from the league office if a player suspended for his actions Saturday night is needed by the Nuggets to complete an Iverson trade in coming days.
Marc Stein is the senior NBA writer for ESPN.com. To e-mail him, click here.

The first handful of a zillion questions stemming from Kobe Bryant's stunning request to be traded Wednesday, answered in FAQ form:
What happens next?
The Lakers will do everything they can to get Kobe to rescind his trade demand, since they have zero intention of actually trading him, according to club sources.
The good news?
Bryant has already done some backtracking since asking out, most notably after what he described as an "emotional" discussion with Lakers coach Phil Jackson on Wednesday afternoon. "I don't want to go anywhere, this is my team," Bryant told the Lakers' flagship radio station (570 AM). "I love it here. I called Phil, man . . . [and] he just said: `You know what, Kobe? Let us try to figure this thing out.'
Bryant also told ESPN Radio's Dan Patrick that he hoped "something can be resolved, can be figured out, just something, so that I can stay here and be with the team that I love." He continues to express his desire for a return by Jerry West to the front office, implying that such a move could lead to Bryant's reconciliation with the Lakers.
If the trade request resurfaces -- he never formally registered one with the Lakers, according to the team -- look for Bryant and agent Rob Pelinka to assemble a short list of teams Kobe is willing to play for.
Reason being: Bryant possesses the NBA's only active no-trade clause and therefore owns some measure of control over the process.
How will the Lakers respond to Bryant's trade request?
Lakers owner Jerry Buss released a statement Wednesday afternoon reiterating his determination to hang onto Bryant.
"We have made it very clear," Buss said in the statement, "that we are building our team around Kobe and that we intend for him to be a Laker his entire career."
Although Buss hadn't yet spoken directly to Bryant, he was undoubtedly hoping for another abrupt change of heart from his star.
On Tuesday, in a message to fans on his Web site (kb24.com), Bryant wrote: "I have NOT asked to be traded, I don't want to be traded and I have given no ultimatums or demands of being traded." By Wednesday morning, saying that he feels he can no longer trust Lakers management -- "I just don't know how you can move forward in that type of situation," Bryant said -- No. 24 announced to the world that he wants out on Stephen A. Smith's ESPN Radio show (1050 AM) in New York. As of Wednesday night, even after conducting at least two radio interviews to suggest that he no longer wants to be traded, there is a new message to fans on Bryant's Web site in which Bryant seems to be hinting at his departure by saying "there is a new road ahead."
Buss' reluctance to even consider a trade is understandable. Trotting out big-name attractions to the Hollywood public has always has meant as much to Buss as winning championships. There's realistically no player (or players) L.A. could get in a trade for Bryant who could match his box-office appeal, marketability, etc.
Couple that with the fact that Bryant, who turns 29 in August, still is widely regarded as the game's best singular talent, and you can understand why the Lakers privately are saying that they'll try everything they can to rebound and re-bond in the wake of this embarrassment.
In the entertainment capital of the world, Buss naturally would prefer to wait until this time next year -- when Kobe is down to one year left on his contract before he has the right to opt out in the summer of 2009 -- before even thinking about parting with the game's foremost entertainer.
The problem?
While common sense says that the Lakers have lived through a rift or two during Bryant's decade-plus with the club and will find a way to heal the bruises from this one as well, like they always do, there is nothing common about what we've witnessed over the past few days, even by the standards of the Kobe-era Lakers. So there's no telling what will happen next here.
As described on ESPNews by Los Angeles Times veteran columnist Mark Heisler, Bryant appears to be throwing away "a lifetime of poise" in the public eye -- which was most evident when he played a whole season facing rape charges -- with a "four-day meltdown" of mood swings.
With seemingly each interview he does -- and it has been the steadiest, loudest stream of interviews he's ever conducted -- Bryant reveals more anger that only puts greater distance between him and the entire organization. As one club source said, "Who's he with? It's Kobe against everybody."
Everybody but Jackson, it would appear. You inevitably wonder, in fact, how quickly the Lakers would cut ties with their $10 million-a-year coach if Bryant did leave, since Jackson returned -- and Buss consented to that salary -- primarily to give help and hope to Bryant. On the flip side, Jackson's role in calming Kobe down Wednesday can only bring them closer.
Even the open sparring between Kobe and Shaq on the eve of the 2003-04 season -- which, incidentally, didn't prevent the Lakers from reaching the NBA Finals that season -- was primarily just a two-man feud, with a coach (Jackson) and numerous veterans (most notably newcomers Karl Malone and Gary Payton) there to referee. In this case, what initially appeared to be a crusade to bring West back to the Lakers and/or force a roster shakeup this summer now finds Bryant directly challenging Buss on numerous levels . . . even after the support Bryant received from the club while facing those rape allegations.
Bryant feels he has been unfairly blamed for O'Neal's exile to Miami in 2004, insisting in greater detail than ever before on his Web site and through various other media outlets that it was Buss' call. Kobe also contends that Buss has not made the roster moves he was promised upon committing to re-sign with the club that summer and told ESPN's Smith, in a column Smith wrote for Wednesday's editions of The Philadelphia Inquirer, "I've been quiet long enough."
What are some realistic trade destinations if Bryant ultimately forces a trade? 
The Clippers and Chicago are the only two teams that had a shot at signing Bryant away from the Lakers when he was a free agent in 2004. The Clips, naturally, are the last team that the Lakers would want to trade him to, given that they share a building as well as a city, but Bryant will have more control over his future than any other player would in this position because of that no-trade clause.
"It's all up to him," said one Western Conference executive.
San Antonio's Gregg Popovich and Phoenix's Mike D'Antoni are two coaches Bryant speaks fondly of, Popovich especially. The Spurs and Suns aren't much further down than the Clips on the list of teams that the Lakers would hate to deal with, true, but -- again -- Bryant's no-trade clause  prevents us from ruling out the startling image of, say, Steve Nash, Raja Bell and Kobe Bryant lining up in the same small-ball unit in the desert. Especially given all the assets Phoenix could offer; one theoretical package could include Shawn Marion, Boris Diaw, Leandro Barbosa and a first-round pick or two.
If the Lakers decide that they have no choice but to act on Bryant's trade demand, they'll naturally be calling Portland and Seattle to see either of those teams would be willing to assemble a package that starts with either the No. 1 (Greg Oden) or No. 2 (Kevin Durant) pick in next month's draft. Can't see Bryant being willing to relocate to the Pacific Northwest.
So . . .
Chicago, New York, Phoenix, San Antonio and the Clippers. That's a likely starting five, and let's throw in Philadelphia only because going to his hometown 76ers -- and winning over the fans who so famously booed him in the 2002 All-Star Game -- might have some appeal as well.
OK . . . one more suggestion from NBA front-office sources: Bryant to New Jersey to play with Jason Kidd in exchange for a package headlined by a signed-and-traded Vince Carter. The Lakers' unwillingness to part with young center Andrew Bynum in a potential Kidd trade in February, you'll recall, is among the non-moves since O'Neal's departure that has Bryant so frustrated.
Would the Lakers have to give in and trade Bryant wherever he wants?
No.
Even though Bryant implored the Lakers repeatedly on Stephen. A.'s radio show to trade him immediately -- Kobe's quote: "Do the right thing, man" -- they can (and will) stall in hopes of changing his mind. Trading Kobe just three years after trading away Shaq is not something Buss even wants to contemplate.
If the marriage is irretrievable -- and in the (highly) unlikely event that the stalemate then dragged into next season -- L.A. would have the option of putting Bryant on the suspended list (with pay) until finding a trade partner that appeases all parties, as seen in each of the last two seasons with Ron Artest in Indiana and Allen Iverson in Philadelphia after those two requested trades.
Chances are it'll never get that far, though. The greater likelihood is that the Lakers try to make a move that upgrades their roster as opposed to, say, shopping Bryant around the June 28 draft.
Why is Bryant the only player in the league with a no-trade clause?
The NBA doesn't operate like the baseball world, where no-trade clauses or partial no-trade clauses are routinely built into player contracts . . . and where the famed 10-and-5 rule automatically enables veterans with 10 years of service time and five with a player's current team to veto trades.
In the NBA, only players with at least eight years of service time and four with the same team are even eligible for a no-trade clause.
Yet very few players get to that point with one team and then have the opportunity to negotiate a no-trade clause through free agency. Star players like Iverson generally sign their first big-money deals well before their eighth season. Star players like Iverson, furthermore, often sign extensions to those big deals . . . and NBA extensions do not allow players to add major changes in contract terms, such as a no-trade clause. A player must enter free agency to change major terms in a contract.
That's how Bryant put himself in the rare position to negotiate a no-trade clause. He was a full-fledged unrestricted free agent in the summer of 2004 and, having just completed his eighth season and after flirting seriously with the Clippers, signed a new seven-year, $136 million contract with the Lakers which includes a no-trade provision.
Kobe's longing for the return of Jerry West is what seems to have brought many of these issues to the forefront. But won't West be turned off by this soap opera?
According to multiple West associates, that has already happened.
As covered here Monday, West was never a candidate to make a full-time return to the Lakers as Bryant desires. That's because West just turned 69, has plans to watch his son Jonnie play at West Virginia University as much as possible next season and would have to be convinced that even a consultant's role could work without stripping his dear friend and protg Mitch Kupchak of all his authority.
Yet there was growing optimism, as of Sunday night, that West would indeed be wooed back in a part-time capacity once his contract in Memphis expires June 30. West even appeared to open the door to that possibility in a quote given to ESPN's Jim Gray, which included this passage: "I'm a lifelong Laker, so we'll see what happens."
West, remember, is as close to Kobe as any player he's ever worked with. He'd also actually be helping Kupchak by returning -- inside and outside the front office -- as much as he'd risk marginalizing the man who replaced him as the Lakers' lead executive. As it was explained to me by one source: Imagine if it emerged that the Kupchak Factor was the main obstacle that kept West from rejoining the organization. That only would make life more miserable for Kupchak, who already gets more blame than anyone for L.A.'s predicament.
But now?
Those same West associates say The Logo might be as mad as Kobe, seething in his own right because Bryant hasn't realized his incessant lobbying to get West back amounts to vicious slamming of Kupchak's competence.
"It is my opinion that Mr. Clutch, one of the greatest GMs the game has ever seen, would be able to get us to back to that [championship] level sooner rather than later," Kobe wrote in a message to fans on his Web site.  "If he is available, then it makes sense to give him the reins and let him do what he does BEST. I KNOW I can trust him to build us an elite team. I'm tired of losing and I'm sure you guys are tired of it as well. Now is the time to step up and make some things happen."
You know what? Kobe's right. It does make great sense to go after West if he's available, just as when Bryant and Buss put aside their contentious past dealings with Jackson to ask the coach to come back in the summer of 2005. Just like Jackson then, West is the best free agent that the Lakers conceivably could sign this summer, since their salary-cap constraints won't allow them to chase marquee free-agent players.
They desperately need someone of West's stature to unify a front office that Bryant quite rightly calls "a mess," with Buss giving increasing power to son Jim alongside Kupchak, even though Jim Buss has no basketball background.
Trouble is, Bryant might have jeopardized the prospect of a West comeback by putting his wishes out there so forcefully at Kupchak's expense  and now by attacking Jerry Buss on multiple fronts. It's Buss, don't forget, who would be making the call on whether West even receives an invitation to return. And history says it could go either way.
Buss did give in two years ago when the clamor for Jackson to be re-hired left him little alternative. But Buss and West have had their own battles over the years, back in the days when these kind of sagas -- even in Lakerland -- tended to play out a little more quietly.
Marc Stein is the senior NBA writer for ESPN.com. To e-mail him, click here.

When the topic is the NBA's marquee matchups, it's best to look West.
The NBA's marquee game, in my opinion, is Kings vs. Lakers, followed closely by Kings vs. Mavericks (with Lakers vs. Mavericks in third place).
Some people might say that I'm exhibiting West Coast bias -- but if you ask me, we need more West Coast bias in basketball ... and in sports in general!
Why Kings-Lakers? The abundance of story angles and subplots sets this game apart. Allow me to explain.
First, there's the compelling in-state factor. Northern California (Sacramento Kings) vs. Southern California (Los Angeles Lakers). Or, as we Californians would describe it, NoCal vs. SoCal. The Kings suffer from a Golden State inferiority complex because L.A. has set a standard the Kings have been unable to meet so far.
Second, there's the rivalry. The Kings came so close to stopping the Lakers in the playoffs during L.A.'s three-peat championship run from 2000 to 2002. In 2002, the Kings almost beat L.A. in an unbelievable, seven-game Western Conference finals. Before that, there were other classic postseason series that helped build this rivalry.
You could make a case that the Kings have been the second-best team in the NBA over the past five years -- but also include the San Antonio Spurs in the discussion. The Spurs sandwiched the Lakers' three-peat with NBA titles in 1999 and 2003.
Third, there's the star power. The Lakers boast four future Hall of Famers in Shaquille O'Neal, Kobe Bryant, Karl Malone and Gary Payton (though all but Payton are battling injuries). The Kings counter with All-Stars Peja Stojakovic and Chris Webber (when he returns from offseason knee surgery) as well as potential All-Star Mike Bibby.
Then there's the fun factor. Kings-Lakers is, simply, a fun game to watch. Each time these teams play, I make a point to tune in. In fact, the Kings are more fun to watch than any team since Magic Johnson's Showtime Lakers (including the current Lakers).
The Kings play the game the way I like to see it played: They pass the ball, run the court and share the spotlight. They know how to cut hard and get backdoor layups. They can hit the 15-footer as well as the 3-pointer. They can dribble-drive and then make passes to an open teammate for a 10-footer. With all the cutting and the movement, the Kings are a joy to watch.
After Sacramento, the most fun NBA teams to watch are the Dallas Mavericks and the current Lakers. The Mavs also get up and down the court -- a style of play that fans enjoy watching -- and they feature versatile, skilled players such as Michael Finley, Dirk Nowitzki, Steve Nash, Antoine Walker and Antawn Jamison.
What sets the Kings apart from the Mavs and Lakers is their work in the half-court offense. The Kings' passing and cutting is superior to every other NBA team.
As far as the marquee Eastern Conference matchup ... well, if I had to choose one, it would be Indiana Pacers vs. Detroit Pistons -- but only because they're the East's two best teams right now. If the Pacers-Pistons were on TV and the Kings-Lakers were on ESPN Classic, I'd probably watch the Kings-Lakers replay.
Tom Tolbert, who played in the NBA for seven seasons, is an NBA analyst for ESPN.

Editor's note: The following is a transcription of remarks delivered by Bill Walton as the presenter of Swen Nater at the NBA Retired Players Association's Legends of Basketball Brunch at the 2004 NBA All-Star Weekend on February 15, 2004 at the Renaissance Hollywood Hotel.
There is nothing quite like the NBA as a vehicle for making one's dreams come true. Who would have ever thought, though, that it would take so long for it to happen for Swen Nater?
Unlike some of the other legends honored here today -- Bill Russell, Kareem, Oscar, Jerry West, Elgin, Dave Bing, Larry Bird, James Worthy and Norm Nixon -- Swen Nater did not grow up with a silver spoon in his mouth. Born on the edge 54 years ago in Holland, Swen was a product of a broken home that could not quite keep things together.
As the young family's economic condition deteriorated, Swen, the middle of three children, and his older sister, Rene, were dumped at the door of the local orphanage when he was 6 years old. Of the 60 other children at the orphanage, Swen and his sister were the only children there whose parents were still living.
For three long, lonely and isolated years, Swen had literally no contact with his parents who had fled their homeland for the USA and a chance to start anew. They settled in Southern California. Some of their new friends in America finally learned of the plight of these struggling immigrants. And as can only happen in America and Los Angeles, Swen and his sister were reunited with their parents on the Hollywood set of "This Is Your Life." Swen's parents were lured to the show on false pretenses as members of the audience. When they were unexpectedly called up on stage, imagine their surprise when their two young children -- whom they had had no contact with for years -- came walking out of a makeshift windmill, specially constructed for the reunion.
Now 9 years old and in the fourth grade in a new country, Swen spoke not a word of English. He had also never seen, much less heard of the game of basketball. Because of Swen's daily struggle for survival, what little he knew of the world of sport revolved around soccer, the national sport of his homeland.
Growing, adjusting and assimilating rapidly before the eyes of the world, Swen was soon the tallest lad in school. Someone eventually told him about basketball. Now a junior at Long Beach Wilson High School, Swen tried out for the team. He was unceremoniously cut and told not to come back.
Now a high school graduate, Swen was pursuing his dream of mathematics at a new Community College in the Southland, Cypress, a school in just its second year of existence.
While walking to math class one day, Swen -- now a strapping 6-foot-10 --  was spotted by the assistant basketball coach, Tom Lubin. Swen was hustled into the office of Cypress' head coach Don Johnson, who just happened to have been an All-American basketball player for some of John Wooden's early teams at UCLA in the 1950s.
Initially, Swen played very little at Cypress. But through relentless effort, a driving work ethic and wonderful mentoring from Johnson, by Swen's second year at Cypress, he was a Junior College All-American. One fateful day, the Cypress Chargers played the UCLA freshmen team at Pauley Pavilion in the lead-in to the UCLA varsity game. Coach Wooden sat by himself in the stands that night and watched Swen tear it up. They met afterwards for the first time and while Swen desperately wanted to attend UCLA, coach Wooden wasn't so sure. Coach Wooden finally agreed to give Swen a scholarship but made it very clear to the promising talent that he would never play in any of the games. (Editor's note: Nater got to play, as a key reserve for the Bruins.) That mattered little to Swen who only wanted a chance to be a part of something special; to be a member of a team -- of a family -- that he never had.
Most things that coach Wooden has ever said turn out to be prophetic and his caveat to Swen about limited opportunity rang clear as the bells of Royce Hall and Powell Library. But that only served as inspiration to Big Swen, who spent most of his time at UCLA pumping iron and thinking up one-liners to be delivered daily at practice.
Despite never playing in the games for the Bruins (who never lost a game while he was a member of that team), Swen, like all of John Wooden's students, developed both on and off the court. When Swen became the first member of his family to ever graduate from college, that was only the beginning. Soon, Swen became the first and only player in the history of NCAA basketball to be drafted in the first round without ever having started a college game.
Swen went on to a 12-year professional career spanning three leagues -- the ABA, NBA and Italian League. He was the ABA Rookie of the Year. He is the only player in the history of professional basketball to lead all three leagues in rebounding. To this day, Swen still holds the NBA record for most defensive rebounds in a half at 18. Swen is still the single-game rebounding leader for the Milwaukee Bucks at 33. Swen can no longer play basketball at the professional level but even today he ranks eighth all time in the history of professional basketball for rebounds per minute played. The only names ahead of him are Russell, Chamberlain, Mel Daniels, Bob Pettit, Dennis Rodman, Nate Thurmond and Jerry Lucas ... five of these seven people are in the Basketball Hall of Fame and members of the NBA's All-Time Team.
Inspired by coach Wooden, Swen became a teacher himself when he stopped playing. He built a college, Christian Heritage College in suburban San Diego. He was the school's athletic director, basketball coach and Algebra teacher. His teams at Christian Heritage won the national championship.
Swen Nater is so much more than just a basketball coach, mathematician and former player. He is a published author, a film and video producer, a singer/song writer/guitar player and a poet -- having penned more than 125 poems mostly to, for and about his coach -- John Wooden.
After creating a new world order at Christian Heritage, Swen tried to move on and up. But the basketball world would not have him. He couldn't get a job in a world he helped build. Any job. So he picked himself up and moved on, never looking back.
Today, Swen runs the Costco Corporation, $50 billion enterprise that is the largest company of its kind in the world. He lives in the small town of Enumclaw, Wash., on the outskirts of Seattle, in the imposing shadow of Mt. Rainer.
Today, Swen is the one casting the enormous shadow as he and his wife Marlene -- his junior college sweetheart and the only girlfriend that he's ever had -- celebrate the fulfillment of their dreams. Their daughters Alisha (26) and Valerie (25) are both college graduates and have used their own college basketball scholarships to enhance and create their brave new worlds.
This IS your life, Swen. And I am proud, privileged, honored and humbled to be your teammate and to be your friend. And to joyously celebrate you receiving this most prestigious award.
Swen Nater, you are indeed, Mr. Clipper.
Bill Walton, who is a regular contributor to ESPN.com, is an NBA analyst for ESPN. Also, click here to send a question for possible use on ESPNEWS.


Most Valuable Player? Allen Iverson might not even be the slam-dunk answer
in the Most Valuable Sixer sweepstakes.
Coach of the Year? Larry Brown definitely needed a boost before thrusting
little Allen into prime position for a transformation.
In both of those hardware quests, Matt Geiger has to figure in somewhere.
Can't talk about Iverson and Brown, can't dissect how they brought love and
brotherhood to Philadelphia, without bringing up Geiger. No joke, folks:
Geiger counts as an instrumental third party in the Iverson/Brown dynamic,
injuries and suspensions aside, just for what he did prior to this
breakthrough season.
Geiger, remember, refused to waive the $1.2 million annual trade kicker for
the final four seasons of his six-year, $47 million contact.
And that stance was high among the sparks that imploded one of the most
complex swaps in NBA history -- a four-teamer discussed in July and August
that would have landed Geiger and Iverson in Detroit, weeks in advance of
the fall's first Larry lecture.
We'd like to think that Brown and boss Pat Croce would have ultimately
scuttled the deal no matter what, with or without the Geiger factor. That
they were simply trying to scare Iverson into the compliance he has
unexpectedly maintained all season, just as with those rumors of a
banishment to the Clippers.
Except that this was a very real deal. In its most well-known incarnation:
Eddie Jones, Glen Rice, Jerome Williams and Dale Ellis were Philly-bound;
Iverson and Geiger headed to Detroit; Jerry Stackhouse, Christian Laettner
and Travis Knight routed to Charlotte; and Anthony Mason, Toni Kukoc and
Todd Fuller dispatched to the LA Lakers.
As Croce himself told ESPN The Magazine's Tom Friend: "It came close,
brother, it came close."
As close, you might say, as the shaved scalp Geiger sports. Which makes No.
52 a Pretty Valuable Sixer, if not quite the MVS, for his role in helping to
prevent Iverson's departure.
Max Still Mad
No less a Larry detractor than Vernon Maxwell thinks The Relationship can
work. Maxwell believes his good buddy Iverson can co-exist with Coach Brown
all the way to the NBA Finals.
The Iverson-Brown marriage?
"It's a lot better than it was," Maxwell says. "They can get along just
enough to do their jobs. They'll be fine."
Maxwell made those assertions Saturday, after debuting for his new team in
Dallas. Made them even though Mad Max freely admits that being waived by
Brown just before Christmas continues to steam him, three months later.
Iverson remains bothered by it, too according to Max.
"He was upset because we grew to be real good friends," Maxwell said. "And
he felt they should have come to him first, because he's supposed to be the
franchise player, but they didn't.
"We had our agreement -- keep your nose clean and you'll play," Max
continued. "I still got stiffed. When I got released it made me look like,
'What did he do now?' I haven't done anything."
Persevering Pierce
The Sixers will almost certainly open the playoffs against either Indiana or
Boston, and you can guess who they're privately rooting for. The Pacers have
eliminated Philadelphia the past two springs. The Celtics, meanwhile, are a
two-man team for whom simply reaching the first round would be the
achievement.
Or, rather, the season's second most significant accomplishment. Foremost on
the praiseworthy list is Paul Pierce, who has amazingly ranked among the
league's top 10 scoring leaders all season, even after nearly losing his
life in that stabbing incident a week before training camp.
Adding to the bravery is the revelation from interim Celtics coach Jim
O'Brien, on a recent swing through Dallas, that Pierce has maintained his
scoring standards without a single upper-body workout. Which is why O'Brien
is so excited about next season, assuming that he still has the job, when
Pierce can resume sculpting the physique he worked so hard on last summer.
"He has not been able to lift because of the scar tissue," O'Brien said.
"What he's doing right now, I think, is remarkable. When he comes back,
he'll be a more physical Paul Pierce, one of the superstars of this league."
Said Pierce, simply: "I think it's past me."
Around The League
Reports that the Grizzlies have narrowed their relocation options to
Anaheim and New Orleans are a tad premature, especially considering that
Grizz owner Michael Heisley continues to cling to Las Vegas as his preferred
destination. Vegas has been his No. 1 target from the start, with Heisley
hoping to move the team into a town that has no other pro sports franchise,
thereby creating a Sacramento Kings effect.
Sin City, of course, has a history of rabid support for the Runnin' Rebels,
and there aren't many players around the league who'd protest the location.
But until casinos agree to outlaw NBA betting -- and the most recent
estimates had them generating $12 million annually on Association action --
commissioner David Stern won't even consider bringing the proposal before
the league's Board of Governors. And it's a long shot to suggest that Las
Vegas mayor Oscar Goodman will be able to secure the needed cooperation from
the gaming industry by Vancouver's extended March 26 deadline.
The other options -- Anaheim, New Orleans, Louisville, Memphis -- all have
their own sizable warts, but the Grizzlies have to act fast to avoid a
lameduck season in British Columbia that would undoubtedly be more grisly
than ever. Arena dates for each NBA season are typically cemented in March,
so Heisley might have to plump for the city that offers the smoothest
transition.
Why would Stern allow the Grizz to go to Disneyland, putting three teams
within an hour of each other? It could be punishment, so goes one theory,
for Clippers owner Donald T. Sterling, who has steadfastly resisted the
league's repeated urgings that he move HIS franchise to Anaheim.
Vancouver, with its strong Asian population, has been frequently
mentioned as the ideal destination for Yao Ming, the 7-6 center from China
who's regarded as the likely No. 1 overall pick in June. Without Vancouver,
it's unclear which of the high lottery teams will be most interested in Yao.
Especially considering that national-team obligations back home could force
Yao to miss training camp and the first month of his rookie season. The good
news: Yao, by all accounts, has all but secured permission from Shanghai
authorities to declare in time for this June's proceedings in New York.
Marc Stein, who covers the NBA for The Dallas Morning News, is a regular
contributor to ESPN.com.

Rafer Alston, whose transformation from a street-ball legend to a playoff point guard with Miami proved one of the season's more uplifting stories, has reached a verbal agreement with the Toronto Raptors on a six-year deal believed to be worth up to $29 million, league sources told ESPN.com.
After stints with Milwaukee and Toronto, Alston broke through with the Heat, averaging 10.2 points and nearly five assists per game while shooting a healthy 37.1 percent from 3-point range.
Miami had hoped to re-sign the guard widely known as Skip To My Lou for his role in the And1 Mix Tape series, but the Heat was reportedly hoping to split its $5 million mid-level exception between Alston and a power player such as Boston's Mark Blount.
When new Toronto general manager Rob Babcock came with a strong offer to lure him back to Canada, Alston agreed to become Babcock's first free-agent signing.
Alston's contract is reportedly guaranteed for $21 million over the first five years, which are fully guaranteed. The Raptors, sources said, hold a club option for the sixth season which, with incentives, take that figure into the $29 million range.
Marc Stein is the senior NBA writer for ESPN.com. To e-mail him, click here. Also, click here to send a question for possible use on ESPNEWS.

With 23 victories already, same as last season's tally, perhaps it's time to play Twenty-Three Questions With The Bulls, in honor of the win total and, well, You Know Who.
Or maybe not.
Since these are the new Bulls, let's play Seven Questions instead, in a bow to Chicago's sixth man extraordinaire: No. 7, Ben Gordon.
Or as a tribute to the fact that this season -- the Bulls' seventh since their last championship -- might finally be the one that halts their playoff drought.
Let's play Seven Questions because even Eddy Curry welcomes our curiosity.
"I think that's the natural response of somebody who's watching this team and who's been watching for the last five years," Curry said. "You've got to wonder if this is just a (good) stretch we're going through or have the Bulls finally got it? Are these guys really ready to make that next step?"
Curry's answer?
"This team is definitely for real," he said. "In the NBA, I think you can run through a good stretch and win maybe two, three or four in a row, but to have the turnaround we did . . . I think this team is definitely for real."
Let's keep asking questions to see if we can agree.
1. So ... what were these guys thinking at 0-9?
The initial response, courtesy of Luol Deng:
"This is a tough league."
From there, though, the Bulls swear they were as upbeat as a team can be at 0-9. Very few unprintable thoughts, they insist. Hard as that is to believe, perhaps it wasn't impossible for Chicago to be philosophical about its horrific start, given that the circus comes to United Center every November, forcing the team to start the season with a killer road trip.
The upturn, ironically, started with a one-point loss to Dallas at home on Dec. 13. It was a total giveaway, and it left Chicago with a worse record through 19 games (4-15) than expansion Charlotte (5-14). Yet somehow, the kiddies came away from the giveaway with some confidence, believing that -- at least at home -- they could trouble anyone. That night, Dallas was the sixth straight opponent Chicago held below 100 points. The Bulls wound up holding the next 20 opponents under 100 as well, stunningly rising to the top of the league in field-goal defense.
Just how far they've U-turned became clearer Tuesday night, when the Bulls came back to Dallas for the rematch. With its athleticism and deep fleet of kiddies, Chicago pulled away in the fourth quarter for a 107-100 triumph. Perhaps the Bulls ran out of gas the following night, dropping a 105-92 decision at Houston and falling to 10-10 overall against the West.
"I believed before this," said veteran forward Antonio Davis, an injured spectator against the Mavericks. "Even when we started out 0-9, I felt like there was something about us that was going to turn this into a better situation."
Said Deng: "Any team would be worried (at 0-9). But I don't know much of a surprise we are any more."
He's right. They're not. Although the Bulls' 13-3 mark in January would not have been possible without a favorable, home-heavy schedule, no one is excited to play them these days.
"I think people are taking notice," said forward Tyson Chandler, smiling slyly.
2. How did the Bulls, without warning, get so good defensively?
This time we turn to Ben Gordon for the ready response.
"Coach Skiles," Gordon said.
That's it?
"Yup," Gordon said.
You guys just do whatever Skiles says?
"Yup," Gordon said.
Seems that the revamped Baby Bulls are much more obedient than they used to be, but Skiles has an explanation for his ability to get through where Tim Floyd and Bill Cartwright failed.
"We have a totally different team," the coach said. "That has something to do with it."
Skiles also tries to keep the schemes simple, because of the inexperience. But he doesn't have to compromise on effort, getting dogged work defensively in spite of the fact that his roster is so short on veteran know-how. You can argue that the Bulls' top six players are 24 or younger, with second-year point guard Kirk Hinrich ranking as the senior member of a group that starts with a 19-year-old (Deng).
"The coach demands it out of you," Deng said. "If you want to play, you have to play D."
As a result, they've formed an active-hands unit that allows the opposition to shoot just 41.4 percent from the field, lowest in the league. Skiles doesn't deny that he misses the days when, with a veteran-laden team in Phoenix, he could introduce a couple coverages at the morning shootaround and know Jason Kidd and Co. could carry them out in the game that night. But he's growing to like simplicity, too.
"We were actually really surprised," Skiles said of Chicago's defensive struggles in November. "We defended so well in camp, right from the beginning of two-a-days, and then we just came out giving up 100 points, 48 percent shooting, We were fouling at an unbelievable rate. Then when we really looked at it, it was just basically one guy breaking down every possession. It wasn't a total team thing. As soon as we got after those individual breakdowns, we started becoming a very good defensive team.
"With our youth, we're not going to be a 100-plus points-per-game team [offensively]. We're going to be in the mid-to-low 90s. So doesn't take a genius to figure out that, if we don't keep the other team in the upper 80s, we're probably in trouble. ... For being rookies [or close to it], they've been exceptional."
3. How has Skiles, a supposed screamer, connected with these particular players?
Reason A: Insiders say Skiles isn't nearly the screamer that his reputation suggests, and that he's far more a teacher than a screamer in Chicago.
Reason B: The advantage to having so many young guys, as opposed to veterans, is that they're less likely to fire back at a demanding coach than vets would.
"I think so," Curry said. "I think that's one of the reasons we've been able to turn it around so fast."
Curry was careful to clarify that Skiles is as hard-nosed [and blunt] as legend has it. "Harder than I can probably explain," Curry said after a long pause. "He's a tough guy. He really demands perfection from this team, and we try to give it to him."
Gordon echoed that opinion, putting Skiles in the same intensity class as his University of Connecticut coach, Jim Calhoun.
"They're about as demanding as demanding gets," Gordon said. "They know exactly what they want and they're very confident in their teaching."
Yet Gordon quickly adds that he thinks that kind of push "is something I need in my career," and he's not the only Bull who feels that way. Several young Bulls come from good programs where respect for the coach is ingrained early -- Gordon from UConn, Kirk Hinrich from Kansas, Chris Duhon and Deng from Duke, even Andres Nocioni from Argentina's gold-medal winning national team. In an era when top draftees rarely stay in college for more than a year or two, the experience those players bring from their years in the best college systems is an undeniable plus.
Curry and Chandler, meanwhile, seem ready for someone to push them in the right direction after three lost seasons. Having been bashed so much locally and nationally for their lack of development and consistency, they're both willing to absorb Skiles' tough love if it means that they'll continue to rebound.
"The inexperience is not really that bad, because even though they're young, a lot of these guys are mature for their ages," Davis said. "They're good kids, so we don't worry about them being young. The biggest thing is, they're really listening."
4. Will Bulls fans -- and Bulls management -- continue to be patient?
The fans have been amazingly patient, so patient that the Bulls have no right to expect more. Some sort of dropoff is understandable after a run of six championships in eight seasons, but the Bulls haven't merely faded. In the six seasons since its last title in 1998, the franchise has posted a cumulative record of 119-341.
Yet the patience shown by general manager John Paxson is almost as laudable. There were widespread calls for a major shakeup when the Bulls opened 0-9. Curry, a restricted free agent this summer, was, in particular, a pretty unanimous choice to be the first one traded away.
Yet Paxson held firm. GMs everywhere called, but Paxson, according to league sources, didn't want to be the one who had lived through Curry's growing pains and then moved him just in time for the 22-year-old to blossom. It's a stance that history supports, since most every big man to jump directly from high school to the pros eventually makes it.
So somehow he convinced Curry, after his mother and agent demanded a trade, to put off contract-extension talks until the summer and focus on the season.
"We established that early," Curry said.
A few months later, Curry and Chandler are at the forefront -- or at least the front court -- of a nucleus that has rival GMs envious. The roster Paxson has assembled recently prompted influential Chicago Sun-Times columnist Jay Mariotti, a regular on ESPN's "Around The Horn," to write that Paxson "has moved on to something more amazing" some 12 years removed from his famed clinching jumper against Phoenix in the 1993 NBA Finals.
"We feel within our organization in the past year and a half or so, we've definitely turned a couple of corners," Skiles said. "We're moving in the right direction and all that. But you don't get anything for that.
"We want what everybody wants. We want a ring. That's what everyone's trying to get. But from where we came from, we've got to sort of get back in the game first. Which is becoming a competitive team every night, winning games [and] at some point becoming a playoff team, and then you take it from there. Normally, teams get in the playoffs, they take their lumps for a few years, they make progress, and sometimes they win it. It's a long, long process."
5. Won't the Bulls start feeling pressure now that a playoff berth is expected?
Common sense says yes. Skiles concedes that "expectations have been raised" by the magical January, and now the schedule is working against them. The Bulls are just three games into a stretch that calls for them to play away 13 times in a span of 18 games.
Yet they sure looked loose in Dallas, especially in crunch time. Which might have been an example to remind us about the good side of inexperience -- being oblivious to the pressure sometimes.
It also doesn't hurt that, in the East, the expected elite of Detroit-Miami-Indiana is only a two-team elite at present, given Indiana's struggles.
So if Chicago's D holds up ...
"This franchise, the past six years or whatever, it hasn't even been in playoff contention," Gordon said. "So we have nothing to lose."
Adds Deng: "It really couldn't be a disappointment [if Chicago misses the playoffs]. We're a rebuilding team, and we've already shown that we're building something."
And Curry: "To the fans it'd probably be a pretty big disappointment, but at the same time I think they're happy with our effort, knowing that we don't have any quote-unquote stars on this team. I think people in Chicago recognize that."
6. Are the Bulls willing to pay whatever it takes to re-sign Curry and Chandler in the summer?
This is the biggie, of course, and the feeling here is that they can't afford not to re-sign them. It figures to be very expensive to hang onto both seven-footers, restricted free agents who are bound to attract big-money offer sheets. Then, down the road, whatever the Curry-Chandler outcome, it'll undoubtedly impact Chicago's efforts to re-sign Hinrich, Deng and Gordon when those Baby Bulls come up for new contracts.


Curry and Chandler want to stay and finally appear to be prospering. The fear, of course, is that Curry will re-gain all his lost weight and Chandler will never shake his penchant for injury once they get their money.
Yet the risk is just as great that they'll flourish elsewhere if they leave, a la Jermaine O'Neal, as they continue to grow up.
Skeptics will note that Curry continues to be a factor at only the offensive end . . . and that his rebounding on either end isn't close to what it should be . . . and that he didn't lose weight until his contract year. With the defense-first Chandler, the doubts about his ability to stay healthy aren't going away, either.
Paxson, though, knows the Bulls' recent history. Elton Brand, Brad Miller and Ron Artest all became All-Stars after Chicago let them go. They'd naturally prefer if that didn't happen again.
"I don't see how Eddy doesn't keep getting better," said veteran swingman Eric Piatkowski, who's even more excited as a Curry teammate than he was in Houston playing alongside Yao Ming.
"He's so young. He has to get better. And I keep telling people, he's a beast already."
Said Curry: "I do feel that me and Tyson are a good fit for the franchise together. But things happen. Owners and organizations tend to look elsewhere when you don't have a winning season. The more games that we win, the more likely we'll stay here.
"[But] it's not a problem. I think that I'm a good player and that I'll have a fairly decent contract waiting for me next summer, if not [in] Chicago then somewhere else.
Chandler and Curry stressed, however, that staying in Chicago is their shared first choice.
"Especially," Curry said, "after going through the hard times and seeing what it's like when you go through some good times."
7. More than halfway through the season, is it safe to say this team is for real?
Depends on whom you ask.
From the players, there's no hesitation.
"Definitely," Chandler said.
"We believe," Deng said, "that we're a playoff team."
Skiles, not surprisingly, is the only Bull in downplay mode.
"We were starting on the bottom," he said. "We had one of the worst overall records in the past several years. So when you're starting that low, it doesn't take much to get everybody to sort of overhype everything.
"We like the direction we're headed in. We like our young guys. But we've tried to focus on how we play and not wins and losses, and that's helped us. So if we do hit a really rough spot, that's what we have to fall back on -- how we play.
"When guys have a little success, it's definitely possible that they can have a letdown. We try to keep an eye out for that, but you can't have an iron fist or anything. We're dealing with young people. They're human beings. We just try to talk our way through it. We're hoping to have some success that doesn't go to their heads."
The good news?
"They don't seem like that kind of people," Skiles contends.
"I'd rather have people think we weren't for real," Chandler added. "When people notice you're for real, they tend to spent a little more [preparation] time on you."
Marc Stein is the senior NBA writer for ESPN.com. To e-mail him, click here. Also, click here to send a question for possible use on ESPNEWS.

Take it from a lifelong Knicks fan: This edition is the sorriest ever. And the reason is Larry Brown.
The last Knicks championship was 33 years ago ... 33 -- that was the number of Patrick Ewing's jersey and Cazzie Russell's jersey. That was six presidents ago. In the spring of 1973, the World Trade Center officially opened. The Watergate hearings had just begun.
It has been a long time between sips of champagne. This year has made it seem intolerably longer.
Before his hiring, Brown was anointed as the Socrates of the sidelines, capable of divining the inner mysteries of 12-man harmony. He said coaching the Knicks was his "dream job" and that former Knicks coach Red Holzman was once his "hero."
No rational person expected the 2006 Knicks to play at the divine level of Holzman's 1970 and 1973 championship teams. After all, six Hall of Famers emerged from those two squads.
But Brown signed for a price that could have paid for New York's previous 20 coaches combined, to navigate the Knicks' floundering ship in the direction of the team's golden age.
He has not merely failed in that effort. He has failed utterly and to a degree no one could have imagined. Worse, he has done so without dignity or grace or accountability. His performance throughout this season has been petty and mean-spirited.
Brown has employed 39 different starting lineups. No one, not even his own players, can divine his kaleidoscopic pattern of lineups and substitutions. If you can figure it out, please get in touch with me for your next assignment: to explain the sound of one-handed clapping.
New York won 33 games last season, and talk before this season centered on how Brown probably needed to add just 10 wins to get New York into a postseason tournament that welcomes more than half the teams in the league. As it turns out, he wouldn't have needed 10. But it's a moot point -- the Knicks are on pace to finish 21-61. Did the Knicks hire Brown to subtract a dozen wins?
What else has gone wrong?
Well, he has dogged Stephon Marbury, his best player, running him down in the press on a regular basis. The Marbury slamming started at the 2004 Olympics in Athens and continued last August -- just a month after Brown was hired -- when he asserted that Allan Houston was New York's "best player" last year.
Oh, really? The same Allan Houston who missed 62 games and averaged 11 points last year was better than Marbury, who played every game and posted 21 points and eight assists a night? Explain that one. Moreover, explain why you would say that aloud.
To be sure, Marbury is an easy target. His detractors rattle off his failures in Minnesota, Phoenix and New Jersey as readily as they bring up Brown's record of improving his teams.
Larry Brown has attained cult status as a thinking man's coach. He coached the 2004 Pistons to a title. He has made many teams better than he found them. The other side of bettering them is leaving them: He has coached nine ABA and NBA teams in 22 years.
But his handling of Marbury and the rest of the Knicks demonstrates his willingness to scapegoat his players. It seems that Brown believes he is responsible when his teams win, but not when they lose.
"I've made every team I ever coached better," he said. "Every one. Look, I've been coaching how many years? I never left a team in worse shape than I got it. Not one. Now think about that. Think about me and think about the guy who's talking. I never left a team in worse shape. Never asked anything of my players any different than I'm doing right now. Think about that. Think about that. So the bottom line is, I want us to rebound, defend, share the ball, play hard. That's all. If you can't do that, if that's not important enough to you, it's not on me. It's not on me."
It's not on me. It's on Marbury, the guy who leads the team in minutes, scoring, assists and steals -- one of two players in NBA history to average 20 points and eight assists for his career. (Oscar Robertson is the other.)
When teams play worse, it's not Brown's fault. He had very similar critiques of the Pistons when he coached in Detroit. For instance: "We have to play a lot harder, we have to be a lot more aggressive, we have to share the ball better, rebound the ball better. I think those are things that you talk about every game, though. I say this over and over again. I write on the board before every game, play hard, play unselfishly, play smart, try to defend and have fun."
According to Brown, he wins games but doesn't lose them.
To reinforce his points, Brown criticizes his players relentlessly, both publicly and privately.
"Never in all my years have I seen a coach run down his best player in the press like Brown," one veteran NBA writer said.
"I covered him for six years in Philadelphia and he did it all the time," said another, unsurprised at his antics this year.
To get some perspective on the Knicks' disastrous season and Brown's handling of his team, I talked to the player I consider the greatest Knick of all, Walt Frazier, a longtime color commentator for Knicks games.
What does Frazier think about Brown's tactic of playing canary to the media? Did Red Holzman settle scores in print?
"Red would get in your face," Frazier said, laughing. "But not in the press."
Bob McAdoo, now a Miami assistant coach, played for Jack Ramsay on the Buffalo Braves during 1973-76 and for Riley with two Laker title teams in 1982 and 1985. Did either of those coaches upbraid players in the press?
"Oh no," McAdoo replied. "Everything was in-house, behind closed doors. The fans never knew the inner workings of the team."
Why did those coaches hold their fire in the media?
"What good could come out of that?" McAdoo added. "Why attack your top players? They are prideful and they're not going to take an attack from anyone."
I asked Frazier more specifically about Brown's contention that Marbury is the problem.
"Stephon is damned if he does and damned if he doesn't [according to Brown]," said Frazier. "If he scores, he's selfish. If he doesn't, he's not playing up to his potential.
"They have to get along," Frazier said. "Marbury wants to win. He came up to me on the plane and pointed to my [1973 championship] ring and said, 'I want what you have.' Besides, the guy has skills; he can get to the basket against anyone."
Frazier ought to know. Consider the greatest day in team history, May 8, 1970. New York played Game 7 of the NBA Finals against the Lakers -- who had Jerry West, Elgin Baylor and Wilt Chamberlain -- with Reed, their center and league MVP, badly injured. Frazier filled the void, recording 36 points, 19 assists and seven rebounds in a 113-99 victory.
"Red always instructed us to hit the open man," Frazier said. "That night I was the open man."
This season sullies that '69-70 season and some of the other greatest memories from Knicks history -- the 1973 championship squad and its legendary team play; the overachieving '84 Knicks, led by coach Hubie Brown and superstar Bernard King; the physical, ferocious '94 squad coached by Pat Riley; and the team of seven seasons ago, which made a surprise dash to the Finals.
Across nearly 50 years, the coaches of the best Knicks teams -- Joe Lapchick, Red Holzman, Hubie Brown, Pat Riley, Jeff Van Gundy -- sucked every ounce of talent and effort from their troops. They didn't always win it all, but they emptied the tank in the attempt. When they lost, they lost without disgrace.
Even when the Knicks were truly bad, the scent of those years didn't rival the unbearable stench of this one. This season is singular, dubiously singular, in turning losing into disgraceful losing. Hello, Larry.
Kenneth Shouler is the editor of and a writer for "Total Basketball: The Ultimate Basketball Encyclopedia." Send him questions or comments here.

MEMPHIS, Tenn. -- The NBA delivered its tersely worded statement late Tuesday, casting further doubt on the chances that the sale of the Memphis Grizzlies from Michael Heisley to a group led by former Duke teammates Brian Davis and Christian Laettner would go through. The language was curt and almost threatening: "Based on the limited information that we have received, it appears that certain elements of the transaction would not comply with NBA rules."
Is this deal dead? What does the future hold for Jerry West, Mike Fratello and Pau Gasol?
ESPN.com went to Memphis to investigate the many facets of the proposed sale and to get a closer look at Davis, the not so deep-pocketed 36-year-old trying to pull off this deal.
The 99 percent solution
"What are the chances this thing is going to go through?" Brian Davis was asked last weekend in Memphis at an office inside a converted cotton warehouse, the type of old, sturdy, exposed-brick building that sends Davis' pulse racing.
It's a building somewhat similar to the old tobacco warehouse in Durham, N.C., that the 36-year-old Davis converted into loft apartments. That was a little more than a decade ago, when Davis would bring investors down to the complex itself to let them touch what they would be buying -- a literal hands-on strategy that helped Davis become a millionaire, building a small fortune that's a lot of money by casual standards but a pittance compared to the net worth of the heavy hitters whose ranks he is trying to join.
Taking advantage of a change in NBA ownership rules, Davis is trying to buy the Memphis Grizzlies by putting up between $31 million and $39 million of his own money -- a far smaller amount than what has previously been reported. He insists his bid will withstand the scrutiny of the NBA, which hasn't yet seen it, and he's confident his big-moneyed silent partners -- their identities still a mystery, even to the NBA -- will pass muster, too.
"It's 100 percent. The money is there," he said.
"One hundred percent? Really? You're that certain?" ESPN.com asked.
"OK, 99 percent," Davis hedged, "because you never know with David [Stern]."
Tick, tick, tick
A former Duke guard and a veteran of 68 NBA games with the Timberwolves in 1993-94 (he averaged 1.9 points and knocked down one career 3-pointer in three attempts), Davis has a closing deadline of Jan. 15 in his bid to gain control of Heisley's 70 percent share of the franchise.
The minority owners who control the remaining 30 percent have already passed on their option to match the Davis offer, saying they were willing to move forward despite Davis' failure to identify his fellow investors as they said he told them he would. In other words, the guys Davis is going to have to work with -- including local magnate Pitt Hyde of AutoZone fame -- are already somewhat ticked off at him for being slow to provide the information he promised.
They are among the many skeptics waiting to see whether the NBA will sign off on the financial particulars of a deal Davis has been trying to put together for nearly a year, leaving the franchise -- and especially its three biggest principles, president Jerry West, coach Mike Fratello and star forward Pau Gasol -- in a frustrating state of limbo.
Memphis has the NBA's worst record, 4-13, and there's nothing anybody can do to shake things up on the basketball side until the sale either does or doesn't go through.
"We've been told we can't do anything," Fratello said. "Nobody knows for sure what's going to happen with anybody because what if the sale doesn't go through? Then the team is still Mr. Heisley's."
Davis has been scrambling against the clock to turn assets into cash while also securing commitments from partners who will provide the bulk of the money. Outside of Davis' inner circle, the identities of those investors still are not known to anyone, including the attorneys and accountants inside the NBA office in New York who will ultimately review the financial strength and viability of the Davis bid.
"I'm submitting it in a week," Davis said.
"A week or two," corrected his attorney, Michael Sorrell, who helped handle the sale of the Dallas Mavericks from H. Ross Perot Jr. to Mark Cuban in 2000.
Show me the money
What Davis is trying to pull off is quite uncommon in the annals of NBA ownership transfers because he's trying to do it with a relatively large group and a relatively small amount of his own money. When Cuban bought the Mavs, he simply wrote a check. When Bob Johnson paid his $300 million expansion fee to acquire the Charlotte Bobcats, he used Viacom stock.
Davis will probably have at least one investor putting up a larger sum than his own, but under a recent change in league bylaws, those investors will have to agree in their purchase agreement to cede control to Davis for making franchise decisions.
The change was made to avoid future fiascoes such as the still-unresolved Atlanta Hawks ownership dispute between Steve Belkin and his former partners, the new rules essentially boiling down to this: Each team now has one designated person, and one person only, making the decisions.
(When the Hawks agreed to a sign-and-trade agreement with Phoenix two summers ago to bring in Joe Johnson, Belkin balked while his partners OK'd it. The deal was delayed but ultimately went through, and Belkin successfully sued his former partners to gain control of the franchise, a verdict still being held up by an appeal.)
Under league rules, the minimum size of the share Davis must purchase to have control of the franchise is 15 percent of the team's equity valuation, which is established by subtracting the assumed debt from the total franchise value. Davis would take on between $100 and $154 million in debt (the exact number is still in dispute) for a team that lost $82 million over the past three years, which would mean -- with the franchise value set at $360 million by this sale -- he'll need to have between $31 and $39 million in cash (and it can't be borrowed money) for the sale to close.
"The money is there," Davis said.
Rarely are sales of NBA teams this prolonged, and the league made its impatience clear Tuesday in a statement from deputy commissioner Joel Litvin that expressed frustration with Davis:
The NBA has not yet received from Messrs. Davis and Laettner sufficient information to conduct our review of their proposed purchase of the team, in accordance with NBA rules. Among other things, and despite numerous requests from the NBA, we have not been provided with important information about other potential investors, including the sources and amounts of funding that they would supply.
Put up your Dukes
Davis has been forbidden by the NBA from commenting on any matters pertaining to the Grizzlies other than his acquisition bid, and he has been playing his cards close to the vest -- though misplaying his hand at times, too -- while the sale remains pending.
He explained that he did not provide Hyde and the other minority investors with any financial information because he was unsure whether they would use that information to influence their decision on whether to match his offer.
That may not be the best way to please a prospective future partner, but it was a calculated move Davis believed he needed to make to further his pursuit of what he called a career dream.
Davis has vowed to move his wife and two young sons from Washington (where they live in the former Irish embassy and have a jail cell in their basement) to Memphis and to also invest heavily in the renaissance of the city's downtown, converting old buildings into loft rental apartments while marketing the FedEx Forum, built smack dab at the end of the blues mecca of Beale Street, as a destination for the region.
During a somewhat contentious meeting with reporters and editors at the city's daily newspaper, The Commercial Appeal, Davis was agitated that his purchase bid was being met with more skepticism than support.
At first glance, you might think Memphians would be more welcoming to a young black entrepreneur who wants to move to town and further the development of a downtown that was mostly boarded up 20 to 25 years ago, especially when the alternative is leaving the city's only pro sports franchise in the hands of an out-of-town owner anxious to sell.
But people in Memphis are still paying off the Grizzlies' old home, the Pyramid, built by another out-of-towner who came in with big talk and big plans that didn't exactly work out, and they don't want to be fooled twice -- especially because resentment still lingers over the manner in which public funding for the FedEx Forum was not voted on by the taxpayers.
Davis also didn't do himself any favors the day the purchase was announced when he said his friend and former teammate at Duke, Christian Laettner, would be joining the team. Reporters actually laughed out loud at Davis when he mentioned it, thinking he was joking. But Davis was serious, and West and Fratello were incensed that an incoming owner was trying to dictate having his buddy on the roster.
Davis had to sheepishly quash the Laettner furor two days later by issuing a statement saying Laettner would not be playing, and that was about all anyone heard from Davis until last weekend.
During the interim, The Commercial Appeal published details from a leaked document disclosing some of Davis' financing and operational plans, part of which said Davis and Laettner would use their basketball expertise to select the right players.
Many took that as a dig at West, among the most respected front-office executives and decision makers in the NBA. Davis committed another faux pas when he told The Wall Street Journal that Memphis would be nice "if it had a downtown" -- a comment he says he was misquoted on, claiming he actually said "if it had a 24-hour downtown."
What now for Pau?
The document cited by The Commercial Appeal also said Davis planned to cut costs by $26 million. That left some in the team offices fearful of job cuts (although the bulk of the savings would come from the expiring contracts of Eddie Jones and Chucky Atkins). It also prompted other teams, including the Boston Celtics, to phone the Grizzlies and inquire whether they might trade Gasol, their franchise player who is under contract for $63 million through 2010-11.
The speculation of a Gasol deal became so rampant that Heisley telephoned the team's beat writer and screamed, "We're not trading Pau Gasol," though Heisley's statement still rang hollow with many since he is someone, after all, who in another six weeks might have no say whatsoever on Grizzlies matters. Davis is believed to favor building around Gasol, though he has not said so publicly.
Whither the Czar?
Before the season, West told Fratello -- presumably with the blessing of Heisley and Davis -- to implement a high-tempo style. West had assembled a new core of athletic young players, including Rudy Gay, Hakim Warrick, Kyle Lowry (before he was injured) and Dahntay Jones. Gasol, who thrives in the half court, had broken his foot in September at the World Championship.
Fratello insists that, despite his reputation, he is not wedded to a methodical style of play, but once again this season the Grizzlies are playing at one of the slowest paces in the league. In November, with the Grizzlies at the bottom of the Western Conference, where they remain, Heisley openly questioned Fratello's lineup choices and the team's slow tempo.
Fratello says some of his players have been affected by the limbo, while West conceded there is a split in the locker room between the younger players who want to play a wide-open game and the older ones who don't.
All of this makes Fratello, who is in the last year of his contract, the odds-on favorite among himself, West and Gasol to be the first man overboard, especially if the sale to Davis' group is approved by the NBA's board of governors.
Will 'The Logo' go?
Under normal circumstances, West would be able to solve some of the problems through trades. But his hands are tied just like everyone else's while the waiting game plays out.
More clarity about West's future is part of that waiting game. Though Davis has said he'd like to offer West a lifetime contract, many believe West is leaning toward leaving at the end of this season if the sale goes through and then finding one more big challenge in some other NBA city.
"It's been a very awkward time because of the impending sale," said West, whose contract as team president expires June 1. "After that, I really don't know. But in Brian's defense, I think his ownership would be a real positive because this is something he really wants to do with his life."
People close to West say he has been especially frustrated by being forced to hold all personnel moves pending the sale decision. He'll have a little more than a month between the Jan. 15 closing date and the Feb. 23 trading deadline to negotiate trades.
But if Davis prefers to let the contracts of Jones and Atkins expire so their salaries can come off the cap at season's end, West will not be able to use them as the valuable trade chips they have the potential to be (because West would have to trade them for players with similar contracts that probably would extend beyond this season).
If the sale falls through, though, Jones' expiring contract could be a commodity (just like Penny Hardaway's expiring contract last season) that alters the entire NBA trading landscape in the month leading up to the deadline.
Just like everyone in Memphis, we'll all have to wait and see.
If Davis is to be taken at his word, this deal is going through. And that's when we'll start to know just how long West, Fratello and Gasol will be around.
Chris Sheridan covers the NBA for ESPN Insider. To e-mail Chris, click here.

I can see him yet.
Dennis Johnson walked the ball up. Fast breaking had long been the Boston trademark, from Bob Cousy to Sam Jones to Jo Jo White. Not with Johnson.
He took it slow, rea-l-l-l slow, as if determined to squeeze out each of the 10 seconds allotted to cross midcourt. He surveyed the court with a serene "I've got this under control" stroll. With that leisurely gait, he played like the anti-Cousy.
Johnson passed away on Thursday, at the early age of 52. He was coaching the NBA Development League Austin Toros, working his way back toward the NBA.
When people die, we have a tendency to make them better by half with praise. Dennis Johnson doesn't need it.
If career distinctions are to your taste, Johnson left you a smorgasbord to feast on. He played on three NBA champions, won a Finals MVP award and snatched six first team all-defense honors. In his autobiography "Drive," Larry Bird, a man not exactly given to blowing smoke, called Johnson "the smartest [player] I ever played with."
So I'll leave it to expert voters to explain just how a player of Johnson's accomplishments has been eligible for the Hall of Fame for 11 years without getting in. As I wrote last year, of all the players not enshrined in Springfield, he's one of the first five guys to whom I would give a Hall pass.
Before he directed traffic for the Celtics to secure titles No. 15 and 16, he was crucial to building the Seattle SuperSonics, in the league just eight years when Johnson came on board in 1976, into a world champion. If being underestimated was a leitmotif in Johnson's life, it showed early when he was drafted in the second round, 29th overall, in the 1976 NBA draft. He was signed to a four-year deal that started at $45,000 and reached $90,000 by the fourth season.
With Bill Russell as coach, Seattle won 40 games in his rookie campaign. The Sonics started 5-17 the following season before Lenny Wilkens took over the coaching reins from Bob Hopkins.
Said Wilkens on Thursday, "I had watched Dennis play, and I thought starting him and Gus [Williams] would make a difference. ... I thought [Dennis] was an outstanding player."
With the new tandem, Seattle won 42 and lost 18 down the stretch and built a 3-2 lead in the 1978 Finals. But they lost to Washington in seven games, with Johnson shooting 0-for-14 in Game 7.
The following year Seattle won a franchise-best 52 and zoomed past Washington in five games in the Finals. Johnson averaged 23 points and seven assists, adding 14 blocks -- including seven in the third game -- to take the Finals MVP award. Between backcourt mate Gus Williams and Johnson, the Seattle guards posted 51 points per game, more than half the team's Finals output.
"Talentwise, Gus and DJ are perhaps the best backcourt that ever played together in the NBA," Sonics forward Paul Silas said after the series. "I was sitting around the other day trying to think if there was a better backcourt, and I all I could come up with was the Knicks' Earl Monroe and Walt Frazier."
After winning 56 games the following year, Seattle lost in five to Los Angeles in the Western Conference finals. Following the playoffs, Johnson was traded to Phoenix for Paul Westphal. He played in two All-Star Games with Phoenix, made his only appearance on the All-NBA first team, but reached the second round of the playoffs just once.
His liberation came with a trade to Boston in 1983 for Rick Robey. It was one of Celtics patriarch Red Auerbach's greatest deals. Robey, a frontline player and pal of Larry Bird's, never averaged more than 5.6 points over three seasons with Phoenix, while Johnson became another name on the long list of great Celtics heists.
He helped deliver two titles in the next three seasons. With Johnson directing traffic, the 1983-84 Celtics won 62 games and, in five games in the East finals, avenged Milwaukee's sweep the previous year in the East semis. In the NBA Finals against Los Angeles, Johnson posted 23 points and 14 assists in a Game 4 overtime win, when the series turned. Early in the second half, Kevin McHale clotheslined a driving Kurt Rambis. The play upset the Lakers' fast break and incited the Celtics to more physical play. Johnson scored 22 points in a Game 5 victory. The Celtics got the series back to Boston Garden for Game 7, and their front line of Bird, Parish and McHale gathered 36 rebounds, three more than the entire Lakers team. Johnson scored 22 and the Celtics claimed their 15th NBA title. His defense on Magic Johnson over the last four games was essential: he held him to 17 points per game, as Boston won three of the four contests.
One of Johnson's greatest moments came in Game 4 of the 1985 Finals. The score was tied at 105 with 19 seconds left. The Celtics worked the ball to Bird, but he was double-teamed by Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Magic Johnson 17 feet from the basket. Bird found Johnson, who nailed a 19-footer as the buzzer sounded. However, the Lakers won in six games, their first playoff victory in eight tries against Boston.
In 1986 Boston won 67 games before taking Houston in six in the Finals. As was the case throughout his career, Johnson's playoff numbers bested his regular-season averages.
After scoring his famous layup off a Larry Bird steal against Detroit in the Eastern Conference finals, Johnson had one of his best individual Finals in 1987, when he contributed 19 points, nine rebounds and four assists per game. But the Lakers, taking their first of consecutive titles, won in six games. Boston crept back to a conference final in 1988. That was as far as the Celtics would get, and their loss to Detroit signaled the end of the Bird-McHale-Parish-Johnson era.
It's hard to think of Johnson without thinking of the teams he played on, and likewise Auerbach focused on his contribution to the whole.
In his 1985 autobiography, "Red Auerbach: On and Off the Court," Red wrote, "Being a Celtic player is a hard thing to define. It's an attitude really. Sometimes I think it shows up most in players who started their careers somewhere else and wound up in Boston. Willie Naulls, Paul Silas, Wayne Embry, Charlie Scott, Dennis Johnson. The list goes on. Ask any of them, and they'll tell you what impressed them most upon joining the Celtics was that they were now part of a unit, part of a family whose only purpose was to win as a team."
Red was surely right. But I will remember the walk and style, too. Johnson took it easy, never looking stressed. He orchestrated the greatest front line ever -- Bird, McHale and Robert Parish -- and never looked too bothered doing it. Dennis Johnson was a thinking man's player, then and forever.
Kenneth Shouler is the editor of and a writer for Total Basketball: The Ultimate Basketball Encyclopedia.

The worst news for the NBA was not on the cover of Friday's New York Post, where the words "Fixed!" and "NBA Ref" and "Mob Betting Scandal" jumped off the page in typical Post apocalyptic font size. The worst news was in your head. It was the question you asked.
Not, "Is this possible?"
More like, "Which ref was it?"
If any fan base is predisposed to believing games could be fixed, that an official with dubious motives could manipulate the outcome, it's the NBA's. There have been too many questionable calls over the years, too many swallowed whistles at critical times,  mixed with too few repercussions from the league offices.
So instead of, "I'm shocked, shocked to find that gambling is going on in here!" we had, "I knew it."
And even when we had a name -- Tim Donaghy -- we still didn't have a conviction, an indictment or even a charge. Just an investigation.
For the NBA, that's all it takes. Fair or not, it's operating with the least benefit of the doubt and the smallest margin for error.
How many times have you heard someone say they've had it with the NBA because of the officiating? You don't hear college football fans abandoning the sport because of its inane method of determining a champion. But the league can't get past this notion that its games are not on the up-and-up.
It used to be easy to pose a counter-argument to the conspiracy theorists. There's no way the referees could have it in for each of the 30 teams. If the league did have an agenda, it could not have been to get the ratings-killing San Antonio Spurs to the NBA Finals every other year. Would David Stern really punish nemesis Mark Cuban for the benefit of the Miami Heat's Micky Arison, whom he once fined for tampering with Pat Riley while Riley was coaching the Knicks, then smacked with the unprecedented voiding of Juwan Howard's contract?
This time it's too difficult to explain away. We saw officials implicated in a huge soccer match-fixing case in Italy last year, so we know these things happen. We have seen NBA officials succumb to the temptation of extra money during the airline tickets scandal, so we know they can be lured by money.
Next time you see a suspect call, is there any barrier to you believing there's something else to it?
But while many fans might be turned off, Ken White, the chief operating officer of the Las Vegas Sports Consultants oddsmaking group, doesn't think this game-fixing accusation will kill action on NBA games.
"There's been many point-shaving schemes in sports, professional and college, and it has not affected sports wagering," White said.
Even with the Dwyane Wade free-throw exhibition that was the 2006s NBA Finals, White said, "Vegas had a record year last year, our biggest year ever, and the NBA was a great year for the sports books."
People tend to tell different stories with their checkbooks than they do with their mouths. We moan about the Enrons and MCIs lying about their earnings, but we still put money in the stock market. We've been hearing about BALCO for four years now, but we keep buying tickets to baseball games. We haven't let a string of player arrests stop us from watching NFL games.
(And speaking of the NFL, if I were Roger Goodell my Friday would have consisted of sending a thank-you note to David Stern, then hitting the golf course. Goodell just got a one-week reprieve from the spotlight).
We'll see how this plays out for the NBA. White predicts, "Wagering will continue to increase. There's no one here in Nevada that bets the NBA on a regular basis that's going to stop betting."
One thing that had to take a hit, though: the odds of Las Vegas getting an NBA franchise. This week's bad timing award goes to the developers of a proposed Las Vegas arena who were scheduled to meet with NBA officials Friday. Whoops. Stern couldn't spend all that time worrying about gambling and his league, have this Donaghy story dropped on him, then announce, "We're going to Vegas, baby!"
White points out that this game-fixing story is coming out of New York, not Las Vegas. And the NBA already has cozied up to Vegas more than ever this year, with the All-Star Game, a fully-stocked summer league and the U.S. national team training camp and Tournament of the Americas all producing Las Vegas datelines.
But from here on out, the NBA will have to distance itself from the Strip. In a league that lives on perception more than any other sport, the integrity of the games just took a major hit.
It's like "The Sopranos" episode when Tony tried to convince Christopher that there was nothing going on between him and Christopher's girlfriend Adriana when they were involved in a late-night, lonely-road car wreck.
"I guess I believe you," Christopher said. "It doesn't matter, though. It's what everybody thinks."
J.A. Adande has worked for several publications, including the Los Angeles Times and the Washington Post. He is also a panelist for ESPN's Around the Horn. 

As the NBA and disgraced former referee Tim Donaghy continue their duel over his allegations of six referees rigging four games, various claims and arguments are being made. Discussion, speculation and conjecture abound. The allegations and the discussions of them raise some legal questions. Here are some of the questions and their answers:
Donaghy made his allegations after the NBA demanded $1 million in "restitution" from him. What is "restitution," and is the NBA entitled to any? 
The NBA's demand for restitution came as part of the process that assists U.S. District Judge Carol Bagley Amon in determining Donaghy's sentence. The NBA's demand includes two forms of restitution. The first is for $30,000 in salary that Donaghy received for games he admittedly manipulated to pay gambling debts. It's the kind of thing that routinely qualifies as restitution. His work was dishonest, and he should not be paid for it. There is little doubt that Donaghy, as part of his effort to reduce his sentence, will repay the $30,000 to the NBA.
But the second part of the NBA's demand is highly dubious. The league wants to be reimbursed for $1 million it spent on an internal investigation of its referees. "It is hard for me to believe that this is the kind of restitution that is typically paid to a victim of a crime," said Michael Monico, a highly regarded former federal prosecutor and defense lawyer who is the president of the American Board of Criminal Lawyers. "The investigation was an investment in their product and not a loss caused by Mr. Donaghy."  It is unlikely Amon will require Donaghy to pay for the NBA's internal investigation, and many legal experts wonder why the NBA would even consider making the demand.
Is the FBI investigating Donaghy's allegations? Will others be charged with crimes? 
The FBI already has investigated the allegations. Donaghy first met with FBI agents in July 2007. A team of agents has been probing his stories ever since. As the result of their investigations, federal prosecutors have filed what is known as a 5(k) letter. The 5(k) letter means the agents have checked on the stories and have concluded Donaghy was truthful. The 5(k) letter does not apply to the 2002 Western Conference finals Game 6 because the statute of limitations had expired. More than five years went by before Donaghy described that game to any agents. There was no reason to look into that game because no one could be charged with a crime. The 5(k) letter does apply to statements Donaghy made to agents regarding the three games in 2005. The information could result in a reduction of Donaghy's prison sentence when Amon sentences him July 14. He faces a maximum of 33 months in prison under federal guidelines.
Although the FBI has concluded Donaghy was truthful, it does not mean others will be charged with crimes. Agents and prosecutors easily could have concluded that the rigging of the four games was reprehensible but did not qualify as a federal crime. There was no indication of gambling or money laundering or racketeering on the part of the NBA in Donaghy's allegations. If the NBA wants to extend a series to a seventh game, it might be fraud upon the fans, but it is not a federal crime.
It appears the NBA's demand for restitution prompted Donaghy to go public with his allegations of game rigging. Was the demand for restitution a mistake? 
Yes. It was a blunder. Not only did the demand prompt Donaghy's public allegations of four rigged games, it also gave Donaghy and his lawyer, John Lauro, a chance to go through the NBA's internal investigation. It opened a door the NBA would have preferred to keep closed.
Donaghy and Lauro have asked Amon to authorize a subpoena that would permit them to rummage through every report, every interview transcript and every piece of documentary evidence produced by NBA independent investigator Lawrence Pedowitz. It is likely Amon will sign the subpoena because, if the NBA is claiming $1 million in investigation expenses, Donaghy should be permitted to check the league's claim.  The subpoena will push the NBA into a difficult position. The league can either try to quash the subpoena -- explain in court why the materials must be kept secret -- or withdraw its request for restitution.
Either way, the NBA will find itself in the position of covering up its own investigation of its own referees. What is the league hiding? Commissioner David Stern can say Donaghy is a "rogue" referee, but he would be stonewalling the most significant effort to check his assertion.
Lester Munson, a Chicago lawyer and journalist who reports on investigative and legal issues in the sports industry, is a senior writer for ESPN.com.

In the first of a series of legal battles that will determine the future of the Seattle SuperSonics, attorneys for the city of Seattle will try to convince a federal judge in a trial that began Monday that the Sonics are bound by a lease with the city and must play two more seasons in Seattle. On the other side, Sonics owner Clay Bennett and his co-owners want to move the team to Oklahoma City immediately and insist they should be permitted to leave Seattle if they pay the rent at KeyArena for the next two seasons. Bennett has the NBA's approval for that move. The trial and other litigation and threats of litigation raise numerous legal questions. Here are some of the questions and their answers:
How can a judge force  a team to play where it does not want to play?
It is a bit unusual to ask a judge to force a person or an organization to do something it does not want to do. Judges can be reluctant to put themselves and their courts in positions in which they are managing or supervising something. They are not equipped for such activities. The legal term for this kind of court order is "specific performance." This kind of court order requires a person or an organization to comply with the terms of a contract. It can and does happen.
What makes the city think it is entitled to "specific performance" of the lease?
The key factor in obtaining an order of specific performance is the language of the contract. If the language of the contract is strong enough, an order of specific performance can result. In the lease between Seattle and the Sonics, the contractual language appears to be strong enough. The contract was written in anticipation of the team trying to move and the city trying to stop the move. The key sentence is this: "The obligations of the parties to this agreement are unique in nature; This agreement may be specifically enforced by either party." The key word in this key sentence is "unique." Both sides agreed when they signed the lease in 1994 that the presence of NBA basketball in the city's arena was irreplaceable. They agreed there was no sum of money that could replace the Sonics for the 15 years of the lease. Because city lawyers anticipated the current situation when they negotiated and signed the lease, the city's position is strong. It is hard to see how Bennett and his OKC crew could avoid playing two more seasons in Seattle.
What makes Bennett and his group think they can abandon Seattle with two years remaining on the lease and move to Oklahoma City?
It is not a big surprise that Bennett and his lawyers will try to avoid talking about the "unique" nature of NBA basketball and the killer contract clause that allows Seattle to seek specific performance, or, as it says in the lease, "specific enforcement." They will offer U.S. District Court Judge Marsha J. Pechman all sorts of arguments and suggestions, some of them highly creative and imaginative, to take the case away from that direction. They will assert that specific performance will be a terrible burden for her and her court for two years. They will warn Pechman that she will face an endless series of questions and disputes as the city begins to question the judgments of Bennett and his general manager. The city lawyers will reply that the city will leave the team alone for two years and will not try to impose its judgment on basketball and management issues. Bennett's group will conclude with the claim that the city is entitled only to the $10 million in rent provided in the lease's rent formula.
Bennett's lawyers also will suggest Seattle doesn't deserve the Sonics. The fans, they will claim, are guilty of "yawning indifference" (a phrase used in the Sonics' trial brief) and apathy. They will try to use a poll and newspaper editorials, items that rarely qualify as evidence in federal courts.  And the city government, they will add, has been deliberately harming the team in hopes Bennett will sell the team to Seattle owners. They will try to compare the support in Oklahoma City with the declining support in Seattle, asserting that they are entitled to go where it is profitable. Some of it will qualify as evidence that counts in the outcome, but some of it will not. Much of the decline in fan interest in Seattle likely can be attributed to the team's worst-ever 20-62 record last season and to Bennett's attempts to abandon the city.
Who sued whom? How did this end up in court?
The city fathers in Seattle, including Mayor Greg Nickels, could not help but notice when Bennett, less than a year after he bought the team from Starbucks founder Howard Schultz, asked the NBA for permission to move to Oklahoma City. Refusing Bennett's offer of a cash buyout of the remaining two years on the lease, the city decided to try to enforce the lease. The city's $80 million investment (in the form of improvements to the arena) since 1995 in the Sonics, the oldest sports franchise in the market, was a factor in the decision. The city filed what is known as a "declaratory judgment." It's a legal action that asks the court to determine the rights of the litigants in a developing dispute. The declaratory judgment allowed the city to file quickly without waiting for Bennett to begin the actual move. It means the city is the plaintiff in the lawsuit, will go first in the trial and has the burden of proving its case.
When will we know who wins?
Pechman has scheduled six days for the trial. Each side will be permitted 15 hours to present witnesses and evidence. The first five days are this week. The sixth and final day is June 26. Because this is a bench trial, there is no jury. Pechman is the sole decider. She could rule on the 26th, but it is more likely she will take all the testimony and the other evidence (primarily documents) under consideration and issue a written, detailed opinion a week or two later.
A player looks forward to the moment when he becomes a free agent and can cash in on his talent and success. Does Bennett think he is a free agent as an owner? If he isn't, will he ever be a free agent as an owner?
It usually is the player who wants free agency and fights for it in collective bargaining and court cases, and it usually is the league that fights against free agency. But in this case, the owner is fighting for free agency and the league is supporting him in his fight. Many owners have succeeded in making it to free agency. The most notorious have been the Colts' nighttime move from Baltimore to Indianapolis, the Browns' sudden move to Baltimore after assuring Cleveland they would stay, and the Raiders' moves back and forth between Oakland and Los Angeles. Bennett's case is a bit different. He faces not only the lease that probably will keep him in Seattle as a lame duck for two more seasons but also other lawsuits. The most interesting is Schultz's attempt to take the team back from Bennett and his group and resell it to what Schultz calls an "honest buyer." None of the other owners who moved their teams as free agents faced anything quite like the Schultz attack. Although Bennett claimed at the time he purchased the team from Schultz that he intended to try to keep the team in Seattle, a series of damaging e-mails has surfaced that indicates Bennett always thought he was a free agent and was preparing to move from day one. If Pechman rules for Seattle and against Bennett, Schultz will have two years to succeed in recapturing the team and selling it to a group that will keep it in Seattle. Bennett might be further from free agency than the average rookie.
Lester Munson, a Chicago lawyer and journalist who reports on investigative and legal issues in the sports industry, is a senior writer for ESPN.com.

BOISE, Idaho -- Attention NBA general managers, especially those of you in Cleveland, Boston, Golden State, Toronto and Denver who need help at point guard:
There is a player with the Dakota Wizards, a 6-1 guard out of Oklahoma State named Maurice Baker, who may be the answer to your problems.
Yes, Danny Ferry, you may be setting your sights on Mike Bibby again, but what's your Plan B? And what happens if Plan B and Plan C fail?
And you, Danny Ainge, you may still be publicly denying the obvious, but everyone around the NBA can see you need a ball handler behind Rajon Rondo. If you can't find a way to get Damon Stoudamire, where will you turn next?
And, hey, Chris Mullin, if that Gary Payton backup plan fails after C.J. Watson's next 10-day contract expires, you'll want to read on.
Same with you, Bryan Colangelo, as you contemplate whether Darrick Martin is an adequate insurance policy for the playoffs in case T.J. Ford cannot return.
And you, too, George Karl, because your general manager, Mark Warkentien, is liable to return to Denver with some nice things to say about that certain someone referenced above.
Again, his name is Maurice Baker, and he emerged onto plenty of teams' radars over the past several days as the NBA's Development League, commonly known as the D-League, held its annual showcase -- bringing in all 14 teams and having them play two games apiece over a four-day stretch.
Matched up for much of the night against Bulls rookie JamesOn Curry, who is on a minor league assignment with the Iowa Energy, Baker put up the line of the week Monday night by scoring 41 points, going 12-for-17 from the field and 17-for-17 from the line with six assists (and no turnovers) and six steals.
Two nights later, Baker had 27 points (9-for-18 from the field, 8-for-8 from the line) with four assists, four steals and 15 rebounds -- yes, 15 rebounds from a 6-1 point guard -- while matched up against Cleveland's Shannon Brown, who was on assignment with the Rio Grande Valley Vipers.
"He has a huge heart, he's not a great shooter but he is a great clutch shooter, and he's one of the best rebounding guards I've ever seen," said Eric Chapman, the Boise-based director of the Chapman Report, a scouting and consulting service that tracks minor league basketball players.
Chapman has been watching Baker up close for the past three years and says Baker seems to be about 80 percent of the player he was before undergoing ankle surgery in the summer of 2006 after playing half of a season in Lithuania, which followed stints in Turkey, Mexico, Syria and Russia.
Baker, 27, also played for the Heat and Nets in 2005 summer leagues and for Phoenix in a 2002 summer league. He had 10-day contracts with the Los Angeles Clippers (one game, no points) and Portland Trail Blazers (four games, no points) in the 2004-05 season, so if he makes it to the NBA, it will not be his first time there.
But it sure has been a long time since he was there.
"Finishing at the rim in traffic, that's the one part of the game he doesn't have anymore since the ankle surgery," Chapman said, "but he keeps getting it back little by little, and you can see it each game."
Other non-assigned players who stood out at the four-day showcase included:
  Center Elton Brown of Colorado, who had 19 points and 12 rebounds Wednesday against Tulsa and 19 points and 18 rebounds Tuesday against Albuquerque. The knock against him is he's undersized at 6-9, with a below-the-rim offensive game, to be an effective low-post scorer in the NBA.
  Swingman Devin Green of the Los Angeles D-Fenders had a near triple-double with 24 points, 10 rebounds, eight assists and two blocks Tuesday against Fort Wayne. He cooled Thursday and put up 16 points (on 7-for-13 shooting) with five rebounds and three assists Friday against Austin, where he had to contend with DerMarr Johnson and Ian Mahinmi on the defensive end.
  D-League stalwart Kaniel Dickens, who had a cup of coffee with the Clippers, Nets and Blazers, shot 10-for-17 on 3-pointers and averaged 23 points in his two games for Colorado.
  NBA vet Jelani McCoy shot 9-for-11 in two games for Los Angeles but failed to impress a scout for CSKA Moscow, which is seeking a replacement for injured big men Alexei Savrasenko and Matjaz Smodis. "Bad body language," the scout said.
  NBA vet Randy Livingston, the D-League assists leader, had 20 points and 11 assists for the Idaho Stampede on Tuesday against Rio Grande, and 12 points and 12 assists in Thursday night's showcase finale.

Walker Russell Jr., who was on the Knicks' training camp roster and is the son of one of Isiah Thomas' best friends, went 12-for-23 in two games with 18 assists, four turnovers and six steals for Fort Wayne.
Chris Sheridan covers the NBA for ESPN Insider. To e-mail Chris, click here.

CHICAGO -- Dwight Howard and Emeka Okafor should have just ordered the NBA to clear out some time at the Moody Bible Institute for a game of one-on-one.
If the league had set it up, it would have been the event of the pre-draft camp week in Chicago. Instead, the closest they got was opposite ends of a banquet room Saturday at the Wyndham Hotel during a casual gathering for reporters.
Orlando, which owns the top pick, would have taken up the front row of seats if the league had arranged the workout. The Magic gets its own private workout -- with each one, individually -- later this week. But Howard and Okafor won't be matched up against each other, even though both players would relish the chance.
Each is adamant that he should be the top pick the night of June 24.
Each has a strong case.
"I just think I proved myself," said Okafor, the Connecticut junior power forward/center who led the Huskies to the national title and then graduated a month later in three years at the school.
Okafor was the most outstanding player at the 2004 Final Four. He was the NABC's co-national player of the year award winner with Saint Joseph's Jameer Nelson. He was a first-team All-American and the national defensive player of the year as a sophomore and junior. He finished seventh all-time in block shots in the NCAA with 441 and leaves leading the Huskies in all-time field-goal percentage (.590).
"A team should pick me because I'm a hard worker and I'm mature," Okafor said.
"With me, what you see is what you get," Okafor added. "I'm the guy who comes in and works hard and does what I have to do. I don't have an ego and never have. I just want to win. I never had anyone telling me I was the greatest. I still remember what got me here."
Okafor wasn't taking shots at Howard from across the room. But his point was direct. He's the veteran, the proven commodity.
Howard isn't.
Yet.
"Why should I be the No. 1 pick? Because I bring everything to the table, mentally, spiritually and physically," said Howard, who has impressive high school stats in being a national high school player of the year, a McDonald's All-American, Mr. Basketball in the state of Georgia and a career that includes 2,146 points, 1,728 rebounds and 811 blocks in 129 games at Southwest Atlanta Christian Academy.
"I'm not afraid of anything the NBA has to offer," Howard said. "I should be the No. 1 pick. I'm going to give 100 percent every night. I'm the guy."
So, why not settle things (at least for a day) on the court?
"I doubt that would happen," Howard said. "If I don't play him there (in Orlando) then I'll play him in the NBA at least four times. I can prove it on the court. But you don't go one-on-one in a game, you go five-on-five. It doesn't matter to me."
Okafor said he wouldn't mind such a matchup, either, saying, "I'm not going to run away from it. I'm never scared (of an opponent)."
As for the tale of the tape:
Howard measured at 6-9 without shoes, 6-10 with them on. Okafor checked in at 6-8 3/4, 6-10 with sneakers.
Okafor had 17 pounds on Howard (257 to 240), but Howard edged Okafor by half-an-inch at 7-4.5 to 7.4 on wingspan.
Howard edged Okafor by a tad at 9-feet, 3 inches to 9-2 on standing reach.
What do these numbers settle? Not much. Call it a draw when it comes to the players' height and weight. The pair's athletic work ethic is also a push, although Howard doesn't have as many years put in just yet.
The only tangible edge goes to Okafor in the classroom, where he owns a college degree and Howard won't attend college. (But the NBA doesn't spend scouting hours on a player's GPA.)
On the court, like Okafor, Howard is adamant about spending quality time in the gym.
"I love this game so much and have so much passion for it and I'll do whatever it takes," Howard said. "I don't have to get up at 5 a.m. to work out, but that's something I want to do. I've got the heart, the will and the mindset to go in (to the league) and play right away. I'm up at a 5 a.m. when other people are sleeping to be the best player I can be."
Okafor and Howard each took a step back, saying they wouldn't be disappointed if they didn't go No. 1. But they weren't going to lie. They want it.
Josh Smith, who was a summer league teammate of Howard's on the Atlanta Celtics and is projected to go in the lottery out of Oak Hill Academy (Va.), said Howard wants to prove those who doubt his ability to be an impact player next season wrong.
But it was Okafor's Connecticut teammate Ben Gordon, another projected lottery pick, who offered the most balanced break down of the Magic options with the first overall pick.
"It depends on what the team wants," Gordon said. "If they want someone who has proven himself as a shotblocker and a good defender, then I would say Emeka. But if they want someone who has the potential down the road, then I would say Dwight.
"Emeka is going to come into the league rebound and play defense. It's hard to find power forwards like that in the league. He's one of the best shot blockers of all time. He's someone that I'd want to start my franchise with."
While Orlando isn't starting from scratch, picking either Okafor or Howard wouldn't be a bad first step back to the playoffs.
Andy Katz is a senior writer at ESPN.com.

NEW YORK -- Emeka Okafor tried masking his displeasure about
being chosen second rather than first in the NBA draft. Instead,
his sarcasm made it clear who he believed should have been No. 1.
"It made me feel real special, all warm inside," Okafor
deadpanned on a night when potential was valued more than
experience and high schoolers were a hotter commodity than college
kids.
High school senior Dwight Howard of Atlanta was chosen No. 1 by
the Orlando Magic, becoming the third prep player in the past four
years to be chosen first overall. The expansion Charlotte Bobcats
scooped up Okafor at No. 2, getting the player they preferred all
along.
"As far as them believing in me, it makes me feel good,"
Okafor said.
Eight high school players were chosen ahead of Jameer Nelson,
the college player of the year who dropped to the Denver Nuggets at
No. 20 and was subsequently dealt to Orlando for a future No. 1
pick.
The quest for youth brought an unfamiliar dynamic to a draft
night that began with mystery, the identity of the Magic's pick a
secret to almost everyone right up until commissioner David Stern
walked onstage at Madison Square Garden and delivered the news.
When the pick was announced, Howard's family leaped out of their
seats as Okafor's family applauded at the next table. The two
players shook hands before Howard became the first player of the
evening to be greeted by Stern.
"This feels so good," Howard said. "I want to go out there
and prove all the doubters wrong."
A crowd of about 10,000 fans in Charlotte cheered when Okafor
was not selected by the Magic, and owner Bob Johnson nodded his
head and smiled. Fireworks then exploded, and orange and white
confetti and streamers rained down on the cheering crowd.
Bobcats coach Bernie Bickerstaff said Magic general manager John
Weisbrod "conveyed" to them Thursday morning that Howard would be
their pick. Howard also said his agent was aware all day that he
would go No. 1.
Okafor donned an orange Bobcats cap after the second pick was
announced, and a large contingent of family and friends cheered
loudly from the stands. One held up a sign reading "Okafor the
Olympian," a recognition of Okafor's status as a finalist for the
U.S. team that will compete in Athens.
Okafor, a junior, averaged 17.6 points for the national champion
Connecticut Huskies, and his shot blocking ability and defensive
prowess made him a consensus choice to be one of the top two picks.
His UConn teammate, Ben Gordon, went third to the Chicago Bulls,
marking the second time in three years teammates have been selected
second and third. Jay Williams and Mike Dunleavy of Duke had that
distinction in 2002.
"Other people may be surprised, but I always thought I should
go No. 1," Gordon said.
High school senior Shaun Livingston of Peoria, Ill., went fourth
to the Los Angeles Clippers, who had traded down from No. 2 this
week in a deal with the Bobcats. The baby-faced, lanky 6-foot-7
guard had originally committed to play at Duke.
Wisconsin guard Devin Harris was chosen fifth by Washington,
which was picking for Dallas as part of a trade agreed to Wednesday
night that sends Jerry Stackhouse and Christian Laettner to Dallas
and Antawn Jamison to the Wizards.
If the Mavericks keep Harris, he could be a replacement for
Steve Nash at point guard if Nash leaves as a free agent. But
Dallas was involved in trade discussions with several teams, and
even Harris acknowledged he was "clueless" as to what the true
identity of his team will be.
Stanford junior Josh Childress went at No. 6 to Atlanta, which
had been trying to move into the No. 1 spot.
"This draft in particular, no one had any idea which way it
would go," Childress said.
Duke freshman Luol Deng was picked seventh by Phoenix, which
traded him to Chicago for a future first-round pick, cash and the
rights to the 31st pick, Jackson Vroman. The Suns, who owned three
first-round picks before dealing them all away, wanted to get rid
of the No. 7 pick to clear enough salary cap room for a maximum
salary offer to one of the top free agents.
San Antonio, Denver and Atlanta also have enough room to offer a
"max" contract to a free agent class headed by Kobe Bryant and
Nash.
Toronto Raptors general manager Rob Babcock made his first
personnel move by selecting Brazilian center Rafael Araujo of BYU,
Philadelphia chose Arizona forward Andre Iguodala at No. 9 and
Oregon forward Luke Jackson went to Cleveland.
"We really need outside shooting, and we felt Luke Jackson
would fit that bill for us," Cavaliers coach Paul Silas said. "We
feel we have a player now who can stretch defenses."
Andris Biedrins, an 18-year-old from Latvia, shed tears after he
was selected 11th by Golden State, and Bakersfield, Calif., high
schooler Robert Swift -- a 7-footer -- went next to Seattle.
Sebastian Telfair of Lincoln H.S. in New York City was chosen
13th by Portland, a higher-than-expected slot for one of the record
nine eligible high school seniors. Miffed that he was not invited
to sit in the "green room" offstage, Telfair celebrated at rapper
Jay Z's nightclub, not far from the Garden.
The Utah Jazz had three first-round picks, selecting Minnesota
forward Kris Humphries (14th), Nevada guard Kirk Snyder (16th) and
7-foot-5 Russian Pavel Podkolzine (21st), who was dealt to Dallas
for a future first-round pick.
Boston also had three first-rounders and chose Mississippi high
school senior Al Jefferson (15th), St. Joseph's guard Delonte West
(24th) and Oklahoma State guard Tony Allen (25th). Portland also
had three selections after acquiring the 22nd pick from the Nets.
Prep players Josh Smith (Oak Hill, Va. Academy), J.R. Smith (St.
Benedict's Prep, Newark, N.J.) and Dorell Wright (South Kent Prep,
Conn.) went to Atlanta, New Orleans and Miami with picks 17-19.
Eastern Europeans were favored in the bottom third of the first
round, with Russians Podkolzine and Sergei Monia (No. 23, Portland)
and Ukrainian Viktor Khryapa (No. 22, New Jersey, traded to
Portland) joining Slovenians Sasha Vujacic (picked 27th by the
Lakers) and Beno Udrih (No. 28, Spurs).
Notable second round picks included Brazilian Anderson Varejao
(No. 30, Orlando), 7-foot-3 Puerto Rican Peter John Ramos (No. 32,
Washington), Duke senior Chris Duhon (No. 38 Chicago), 7-foot-3
Korean center Ha Seung-Jin (No. 46, Portland) and Gonzaga guard
Blake Stepp (No. 58, Minnesota).

FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. -- Ronnie Brewer spent three years
helping Arkansas rebuild its basketball program, leading his
hometown college back to the NCAA tournament.
Now, he's ready to show off for the pros.
Brewer said Thursday he would make himself available for the NBA
draft, although he can still return to the Razorbacks because he
has not hired an agent. The 6-foot-7 junior had until Saturday to
declare for the June 28 draft. The deadline to withdraw is June 18.
"I just want to work hard and just test the market to see where
I can go," Brewer said in a news conference at Bud Walton Arena.


Brewer grew up in Fayetteville. His father, Ron Brewer, helped
Arkansas to the 1978 Final Four. The elder Brewer was drafted
seventh overall by Portland in 1978.
Ronnie Brewer averaged 18.4 points per game last season, leading
Arkansas to its first NCAA tournament appearance since 2001. The
Razorbacks lost to Bucknell 59-55 in the first round.
Coach Stan Heath said he supports Brewer's decision -- entering
the draft without an agent enables a player to withdraw if he
changes his mind.
"It probably is a very smart thing for him to do. He definitely
wants to play in the NBA, he knows that's a big part of his
future," Heath said. "The rule was specifically made for guys
like him -- guys who really are considered in that realm of
first-round draft pick, somewhere ... who knows? With that, Ronnie
is going to make sure that he doesn't do anything to jeopardize his
eligibility."
Brewer said he will continue training with the Razorbacks while
arranging to work out for NBA teams. He was asked how highly he'd
have to be regarded to stay in the draft.
"If they were talking late first round, I don't think
necessarily it would be worth it to keep my name in there and I
would probably come back," Brewer said.
Brewer arrived at Arkansas in 2003-04, Heath's second season.
The Razorbacks had gone 9-19 in 2002-03.
They went 12-16 when Brewer was a freshman before improving to
18-12 in 2004-05 and 22-10 last season. Brewer was a first-team
All-Southeastern Conference selection as a junior and perhaps the
league's most versatile player -- capable of playing on the wing or
at point guard.
He averaged an SEC-best 2.59 steals per game.
If Brewer stays in the draft, Arkansas will have lost its top
two scorers. Senior Jonathon Modica averaged 16.1 points per game
last season.
"If he's here, we're going to be very good," Heath said. "If
he's not here, I know I've got some guys here that wouldn't mind
shooting the ball a little bit extra."
Several of Brewer's teammates were at the news conference.
Sophomore Charles Thomas, third on the team with 9.7 points per
game last season, said he understands Brewer's decision.
"When you have people in your ear telling you that you're an
early first-rounder, why not?" Thomas said.
Ron Brewer said he hopes his son embraces the challenge.
"I'm very proud of him, where he is right now. I think he
deserves it," Ron Brewer said. "I think he needs to go out there
with all the gusto and go for his best shot."
He also praised his son's modesty, saying Ronnie might not
realize how much potential he has.
"What he doesn't understand is, he's a very talented young
man," Ron Brewer said. "He's so humble that he doesn't realize
what his upside is. He's pretty good."
Ronnie Brewer is 16th on Arkansas' career scoring list with
1,416 points. Ron Brewer is 15th with 1,440. The younger Brewer
said he wouldn't mind leaving without passing his father.
"We can't play one-on-one anymore because he's kind of old now,
so that really doesn't bother me," Ronnie joked.
Like any prominent program, Arkansas is no stranger to the NBA's
lure. Joe Johnson turned pro in 2001 after his sophomore season,
and prized recruit Al Jefferson went to the NBA in 2004 without
ever playing a game for the Razorbacks.
Olu Famutimi left in 2005 after his sophomore season and played
for the Arkansas RimRockers of the NBA Development League this
season.
Brewer says he still plans to pursue his degree -- and he has no
preference as to which NBA team he ends up with.
"The NBA's the NBA," he said.

J.J. Redick, a likely first-round pick in this month's NBA draft, was arrested early Tuesday on charges of drunken driving.
Redick, The Associated Press Player of the Year, also was
charged with unlawful use of highways for making an illegal U-turn.
Redick, who has a Virginia driver's license, lost his driving
privileges in North Carolina for 30 days, police spokeswoman Kammie
Michael said.
The 21-year-old Redick was released on $1,000 bond shortly after
being taken before a Durham County magistrate. He is to appear in
court July 17. The arresting officer wrote in his report that
Redick had "very glassy eyes, strong odor of alcohol coming from
breath."
Redick had a blood-alcohol level of 0.11. The legal limit for
drivers in North Carolina is 0.08.
"I regret what happened last night, and want to apologize to my family
and the Duke community for the incident," Redick said in a
statement issued by the university.
Redick finished his career as the leading scorer in Atlantic
Coast Conference history.
"J.J. knows he made a mistake and regrets it," Duke coach Mike
Krzyzewski said in a statement. "He represented the very best in
college athletics and exhibited outstanding character at Duke the
last four years. He is and will continue to be a credit to the Duke
basketball family. As his friend and his coach, he has my total
support."
Redick's agent, Arn Tellem, added: "J.J. is an outstanding student athlete of the highest character. He is an
exemplary role model and a credit to his family and the entire Duke
community. This is nothing more than an isolated incident.  Everyone who
has come into contact with J.J. as a student and an athlete knows the
quality person he is and will continue to be."
Redick was arrested soon after 1 a.m. when he turned around as
he approached a license check point near the Duke campus, Michael
said. He pulled into a parking lot of an apartment complex after
police pursued him.
"There wasn't a chase. He didn't run from them," Michael said.
"He was pretty cooperative."
Redick, who won the 2006 Wooden Award as the nation's top college player, shot 47 percent from the field, 42 percent from 3-point range and 85 percent from the free throw line in leading Duke to a 32-4 record. He finished his career with 2,769 points and 457 3-pointers.  Redick holds the NCAA career record for 3-pointers.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

SEATTLE -- Washington freshman center Spencer Hawes said Thursday he will declare for the NBA draft without hiring an agent, leaving open the possibility of returning to the Huskies.
The 7-footer was slowed by injuries and illness for part of his freshman season, but still led the Huskies in scoring with nearly 15 points per game.
Hawes had until April 29 to state his intentions on the draft. By declaring and not hiring an agent, Hawes can participate in predraft camps and decide before June 18 whether to stay in the draft or return to Washington for his sophomore season.
The Huskies went 19-13, their season ending with a loss to rival Washington State in the Pac-10 tournament quarterfinals. It was the
first time in four years that the Huskies failed to make the NCAA tournament.

LAWRENCE, Kan. -- Julian Wright, the versatile but
inconsistent power forward who helped Kansas win two straight Big
12 titles, is skipping his last two years to enter the NBA draft.
The 6-foot-8 Chicago player said at a news conference Monday
that money wasn't the deciding issue.
"Money has never been my motivation," he said. "It's not my
family's [motivation]. Mostly, just playing and feeling like I'm
able to advance my game to the next level. It's not about the
money. I'm just happy and grateful to have the opportunity."
Often inconsistent but at times spectacular with his long wing
span, Wright averaged 12.7 points and 6.3 rebounds in helping the
Jayhawks win their second straight Big 12 tournament title. In the
regular season, he averaged 12 points and 8.1 rebounds.
His best scoring game was a 33-point night at Missouri. But,
showing his bad side one night at home, he went up for a
spectacular, uncontested dunk but lost control of the ball and his
body and landed in an embarrassed heap beneath the basket. Coach
Bill Self was so disgusted, he pulled him out of the game.
"Julian is a versatile, fabulous athlete who can do a lot of
things very, very well," said Self, who joined his star player at
the news conference.
"He'd be the first to agree that there are some things he needs
to get better at. But I don't know how many 19-year-olds or
20-year-olds don't have to get better at something. He'll work hard
to do that.
"But you can't teach a lot of things that Julian does very,
very well. And you can't coach a lot of things he does very, very
well. And I think that was intriguing for a lot of folks."
Wright, who lacks a 3-point shot, said he expects to go
somewhere between No. 10 and No. 16 in the first round.
"I feel like I'm in a position now where I can develop," he
said. "I'm not saying I'm going to be the next LeBron James or an
impact player right away. I know it's a long work in process."
By declaring for the draft, Wright becomes eligible to
participate in the NBA Pre-Draft camp and try out for NBA teams. If
he does not hire an agent, Wright can withdraw from the June 28
draft and return to school provided he does so by June 18.
He becomes the first Jayhawk to declare for this year's draft,
although 6-foot-6 sophomore guard Brandon Rush is widely thought to
be leaning toward turning pro. Kansas had no seniors last season
and would otherwise return the entire lineup that reached the round
of eight in the NCAA tournament.
"I know it's going to be a lot of ups and downs, especially in
the first year, or the second, or maybe the third," Wright said.
"I'm ready for that. I'm not ready for actual playing right now.
Obviously, I have a lot of work to do."
Self, admitting Wright's loss will weaken his team, said he
could not fault the decision.
"Being very candid, if I was Julian and I was in this
situation, I'm not sure I wouldn't make this same decision," he
said.
Self also said he did not expect a decision from Rush, his
leading scorer, for 10 days to two weeks.
"Not a happy day, not a sad day," Self said. "Just a day, I
think if you coach at a place like Kansas you're going to have to
deal with from time to time."

LOS ANGELES -- UCLA All-American Arron Afflalo is passing up
his senior year to enter the NBA draft.
Afflalo, who averaged 16.9 points, 2.8 rebounds and 1.9 assists
and led the Bruins to consecutive Final Fours, announced his
decision Tuesday at a news conference on campus.
The 21-year-old junior from Compton declared for the NBA draft
last year, but withdrew his name and returned to school after
attending evaluation camps. A player who declares a second time
isn't allowed to return to school.
One assistant GM said his team would consider Arron Afflalo with a late first-round pick, so there's hope, but he's clearly going to have to impress in workouts to improve his stock, writes Chad Ford. Blog
Afflalo said it was time to move on.
"The decision wasn't easy," he said. "I did this for my
personal growth, my happiness and where I felt I should be as an
individual, what can get me to compete and be the best basketball
player I can be."
Afflalo averaged 10.8 points while starting each of UCLA's 29
games as a freshman, and a team-leading 15.8 points as a sophomore,
when the Bruins (32-7) reached the NCAA championship game before
losing to Florida 73-57.
UCLA (30-6) was eliminated by the Gators for a second straight
year on March 31, losing 76-66 in the national semifinals. Florida
beat Ohio State 84-75 in the title game.
The Bruins were known for their outstanding defense this season,
and the 6-foot-5, 215-pound Afflalo was one of the main reasons. He
and sophomore Darren Collison made up one of the nation's best
backcourts at both ends of the floor.
Afflalo was the Pac-10 player of the year this season and
finished sixth in the voting for the John R. Wooden award, given to
college basketball's outstanding player.
Afflalo said he was disappointed to leave UCLA without winning
an NCAA title.
"My intent was to come here and win a championship. That was
what I was recruited for," he said. "I compete to win, I don't
compete to participate ... so I was very disappointed."
Bruins coach Ben Howland said he was certain Afflalo will be a
first-round pick in this summer's draft.
"I've done a lot of research and talking to NBA GM's over the
last week. There's a lot of people excited about Arron," Howland
said.
Afflalo planned to drop his classes Wednesday to prepare for the
draft, and said he intends to complete some 10 remaining classes in
the future obtain his college diploma.
"I will be graduating," he said.
He declined to comment on which NBA team he would like to play
for.
"I just want to play, become part of a family, part of a
team," he said.

The USC coaching staff expects Nick Young to announce his intention to declare for the NBA draft at a Tuesday news conference, sources told ESPN.com.
But as of late Monday night, the Trojans were holding out hope that Young wouldn't sign with an agent. One source told ESPN.com that there was a chance Young would wait to sign with an agent to see where he stood in the draft.
A 6-foot-6 swingman, Young averaged 17.5 points and 4.6 rebounds for the Trojans this season. He caught fire in the NCAA Tournament, scoring 20 points in a first-round win over Arkansas, 22 in a second-round win over Texas and 15 in a Sweet 16 loss to North Carolina.
The Trojans may get hit again with an early entrant if Gabe Pruitt decides to declare as well by the April 29 deadline. Members of the USC coaching staff told ESPN.com that they're still unsure of Pruitts' intentions and don't know if he'll sign with an agent if he does declare.
The Trojans exceeded expectations this past season by going 25-12 and finishing 11-7 in the Pac-10. The addition of O.J. Mayo and the likelihood that Taj Gibson won't declare makes USC a favorite to win the Pac-10 next season, but much of that depends on having Young and Pruitt available for their senior season.
Pruitt was third on the team in scoring with 12.5 points per game. Outgoing senior Lodrick Stewart averaged 13.8 points per game. That means there's a chance that USC could lose its top three scorers in Young, Stewart and Pruitt.
Andy Katz is a senior writer at ESPN.com.

LOS ANGELES -- Southern California's Nick Young decided to
pass up his senior season and enter the NBA draft because of what
it means to his family.
"I want to buy my mom her first house. That's one of the main
reasons I made this decision," Young said Tuesday at a news
conference on campus. "It was tough for us. They've been behind me
all the way.
"The opportunity was there to help them have a better life.
It's a blessing. I'm very grateful for everything that's going
on."
Young, the sixth-leading scorer in USC history, said he will
hire an agent, making his decision irrevocable. His parents,
Charles and Mae Young, attended the news conference.
"I think he did the right thing, it's the right thing to come
out now," Young's father said.
"Wherever he plays, they'd better get ready because here I
come," Mrs. Young said. "I've got a lot to shout about."
The 21-year-old junior said he spoke with several people,
including USC coach Tim Floyd and his assistants; his high school
coach, his parents, his brother and his Trojans teammates.
"Nick has played well enough to receive consideration from the
NBA," Floyd said in a statement. "He has our support and we wish
him the best."
Floyd was on a recruiting trip and didn't attend the news
conference.
Young averaged 17.5 points and 4.6 rebounds this season, scoring
in double figures in USC's last 25 games.
He led the Trojans into the NCAA tournament for the first time
in five years and scored 20 points in a 77-60 first-round victory
over Arkansas; 22 in an 87-68 second-round triumph over Texas, and
15 in a 74-64 third-round loss to North Carolina.
"What we did last year was very outstanding. I had dreams of
doing it next year," Young said. "It was a tough decision. It was
a tough thing, leaving this program. I just love this program."
The 6-foot-6, 200-pounder scored 1,486 points in 96 games at
USC. He averaged 11.1 points and 4.1 rebounds as a freshman and
17.3 points and 6.6 rebounds as a sophomore, and was chosen to the
All Pac-10 first-team the past two years.
Young said he informed Floyd of his decision in a tearful
conversation Sunday.
"Coach Floyd didn't want me to leave, but he said, 'First
round, I'd do the same thing.' It was hard telling him," Young
said. "He's an NBA coach -- he did everything possible to help me
on defense, make me a better man."
Floyd coached the Chicago Bulls and New Orleans Hornets before
coming to USC.
Young said he's been told he'll be a first-round pick.
"I've heard anywhere from 12 to 25," he said. "The
opportunity is there for me."
Young played forward and guard at USC. As to his future, he
said: "Everybody's saying a 2-guard. I've got to get ready to
guard Kobe Bryant, Tracy McGrady."
Young said he plans to return to school and graduate.
"Oh, yeah, most definitely. I want to come back and get my
degree," he said.
Gabe Pruitt, a junior who averaged 12.4 points and 4.2 assists
for the Trojans last season, said he's thinking about declaring for
the draft, and might not make a decision until the April 29
deadline.
"Even if I did, I wouldn't hire an agent," he said. "It's a
big decision, I want to make the right one."
If Pruitt declares without hiring an agent, he could return for
his senior year if he withdraws from the draft by June 18.

NEW YORK -- Portland won a tiebreaker against Minnesota on
Friday, meaning the Trail Blazers will pick one spot higher if neither gets a top-three selection through the draft lottery.
The Blazers and Timberwolves both finished 32-50, tied for the
sixth-worst record in the NBA. They have the same 5.3 percent chances of winning the No. 1 pick, expected to be used on freshmen Greg Oden or Kevin Durant.
There were five ties broken through random drawings done by NBA
executive vice president of operations Stu Jackson following the league's Board of Governors meetings.
Charlotte (33-49) won a three-way tie with New York and Sacramento after tying for eighth. The Knicks then beat the Kings -- though the Chicago Bulls can swap picks with New York as a result of the Eddy Curry trade.
Three other ties were broken:
	    Indiana (35-47) beat Philadelphia.
	    Washington (41-41) beat New Jersey.
	    Golden State (42-40) beat the Los Angeles Lakers.
The lottery will be held May 22 to determine the top three picks. The other 11 teams in the lottery will then pick in inverse order of their records.

ATLANTA -- Georgia Tech forward Thaddeus Young entered his
name in the NBA draft, yet could return for his sophomore season
because he hasn't hired an agent.
Coach Paul Hewitt said Tuesday that Young submitted his name to
learn more about his status from NBA personnel.
"I'm enjoying my experience at Georgia Tech, both with the
basketball program and in school," Young said in a statement
released by the school. "Right now, my focus is in finishing out
this semester and then gathering more information from the NBA
people."
Young tied for the team lead in scoring, averaging 14.4 points.
He and freshman point guard Javaris Crittenton helped the Yellow
Jackets to a 20-12 record and a berth in the NCAA tournament. They
were knocked out in the first round by UNLV.
Hewitt said Young and his family did not want to elaborate on
the decision because the 6-foot-8 forward is concentrating on final
exams, which begin Monday. Afterward, he plans to discuss his
situation.
"Many players have entered the draft as a means to gather
information and then returned to school," Hewitt said. "Right
now, Thaddeus is working on finishing this semester, and he intends
to take classes this summer."

CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. -- Virginia guard Sean Singletary will
declare for the NBA draft but is not planning to hire an agent,
leaving open the possibility of a return for his senior season.
The 6-foot junior, an all-Atlantic Coast Conference player,
maintained repeatedly this season he would be back for his senior
year.
"I want to continue to consider all of my options and learn as
much as I can about the process," he said in a statement released
by the school.
There is a Sunday deadline for applying for early entry to the
June 28 draft. Players who don't hire an agent can withdraw their
names until June 18 and return to school.
"I understand Sean's interest in learning more about the
process and feel this step will enable him to gather a great deal
of information," Virginia coach Dave Leitao said.
A co-captain the last two seasons, Singletary averaged 19
points, 4.7 assists and 4.6 rebounds this season. He also made 87.2
percent of his free throws.
Virginia finished 21-11, shared the ACC regular-season title
with North Carolina and reached the NCAA tournament for the first
time since 2001, advancing to the second round.

CHENEY, Wash. -- Eastern Washington guard Rodney Stuckey said Wednesday he will make himself available for the NBA draft but will not hire an agent, leaving open the option of returning to the Eagles for his junior season.
The 6-foot-5 Stuckey averaged 24.6 points last season, leading the Big Sky Conference in scoring. He also averaged 5.52 assists and 2.45 steals.
He will have until June 18 to withdraw his name from consideration. College athletes are allowed to declare for the draft and pull out only once.
"I just think it's the best thing for me to do and I just want to see where I am out there," Stuckey said. "I still have the option to come back to school, but it's still a good thing to hear what people have to say."

USC guard Gabe Pruitt, who declared for the NBA draft in April, will hire an agent and remain in the draft, ESPN's Jim Gray has learned.
Pruitt had not hired an agent when he declared last month, meaning he could have returned to school for his senior season if he'd chosen to withdraw by June 18.
The 6-foot-4 Pruitt averaged 12.5 points and 4.2 assists for the Trojans last season, leading the team with 47 steals. USC went 25-12 last season, losing in the NCAA regional semifinals to North Carolina. He is the 25th-leading scorer in school history with 1,102 points.

Kevin Durant wowed NBA teams in his one college season at Texas. At last week's pre-draft camp? Not so much, according to a confidential draft camp report obtained by The Seattle Times.
According to the newspaper, the report said Durant was ranked 78th out of 80 NBA prospects who worked out at Orlando, while Ohio State center Greg Oden had an impressive workout.
Oden and Durant have long been slated to go 1-2 in the NBA draft, and it's expected the Seattle SuperSonics will take Durant after the Portland Trail Blazers take Oden.
According to the Times, Durant was the only prospect at camp who failed to bench press 185 pounds, and finished behind Oden in some key drills, including  the vertical leap, agility drill and three-quarter court sprint.
Oden jumped 34 inches in the vertical leap while Durant jumped 33 inches, completed the agility drill in 11.67 seconds to Durant's 12.33 seconds, and finished the three-quarter court sprint in 3.27 seconds, ahead of Durant's 3.45 seconds, according to the report.
Durant, however, had a 7-4 wingspan, which ranked second among all prospects and measured a half-inch wider than Oden's wingspan.
But Durant's college coach said scouts should not question his strength just because he could not bench press 185 pounds.
"If people question his strength, they're stupid," Texas' Rick Barnes said Tuesday, according to The Dallas Morning News. "If they are looking for weight lifters to come out of Texas, that's not what we're producing. There are a lot of guys who can bench press 300 pounds in the NBA who couldn't play dead in a cowboy movie. Kevin's the best player in the draft -- period, at any position."

Marquette sophomore G Dominic James will withdraw from the NBA draft and return to school, Marquette coach Tom Crean told ESPN.com Sunday.
"I discussed it over with my family, and it's the best thing
for me," James told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.
James played in Orlando at the pre-draft camps and only had two workouts, with Houston and New York/New Jersey (shared workout). He was projected to go either late in the second round or undrafted.
"I feel like another year of college, or maybe even two, will
set me up for the future," James, who averaged a team-high
14.9 points and 4.9 assists last season, told the paper.
His return should now allow Marquette to compete for the Big East Championship in 2008.
Andy Katz is a senior writer for ESPN.com. Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

Georgetown forward Jeff Green has decided to keep his name in the NBA draft and forgo his senior season, the school announced on Monday.
Green, the Big East Player of the Year during the Hoyas' run to this year's Final Four, has been going back and forth the last few weeks trying to decide whether to remain in the draft. While most teams have Green ranked anywhere from the fifth pick to No. 12 in the draft, the lure of returning to Georgetown for his senior season and competing for a national championship was tempting.
However, a source told ESPN.com that, at the end of the day Green got advice from numerous sources that his draft position was too good to bypass.
Green, a 6-foot-9 multi-dimensional forward, is considered one of the more NBA-ready prospects in the draft.  The Celtics are considering him with the fifth pick. The Bucks (No. 6), Timberwolves (seventh), Bobcats (eighth), Bulls (ninth), Kings (10th) and Sixers (12th) also have interest in selecting Green.
Green
Green has been conducting workouts at Georgetown for teams the past few weeks. The Celtics, Bucks, Bobcats, Bulls and Sixers have made the trip to see him work out.
Monday is the deadline for underclassmen to withdraw their names from the draft. Earlier, center Roy Hibbert decided to remain at Georgetown for his senior season.
Other decisions
 Colorado State forward Jason Smith is staying in the NBA draft and hiring agent Mark Bartelstein, Bartelstein told ESPN Insider's Chad Ford.
Smith is projected to go between pick nine and 18 in the draft.  He's power forward who can face the basket and who has wowed NBA teams in private workouts with his athleticism and shooting touch.
 Illinois 6-10 center Shaun Pruitt has withdrawn from the draft and will return to Champaign for his senior season. Pruitt, who has spent the past few weeks playing against other draft-eligible players, announced his decision on Sunday night.
According to news reports, NBA teams showed only limited interest in Pruitt. He started 35 games last season and averaged 11.4 points, second best on the 23-12 team. His average of 7.5 rebounds led the
Illini and was third in the conference.
 Two-time all-SEC forward Charles Rhodes has withdrawn his name from the draft and will return to Mississippi State for his senior season.
"The NBA put this policy in place to allow underclassmen like myself to test the draft waters, and I simply took advantage of the opportunity," Rhodes said in a statement. "I now have a better perspective on the areas of my game that I need to work on in order to improve my status for next year's draft."
 George Washington guard Maureece Rice withdrew his name from the draft and will return for his senior season. As a junior, Rice led the Colonials in scoring, averaging 15.8 points, and in 3-pointers made, with 64. He was the 2006 Atlantic 10 sixth man of the year.
 Baylor guard Aaron Bruce, who didn't hire an agent, has withdrawn from the draft and will return for his senior season. The 6-foot-3 Australian worked out for Dallas, Houston and San Antonio before pulling out of the draft over the weekend. He has averaged 14.3 points, 3.5 assists and 40 percent shooting on 3-pointers in three seasons with the Bears.
 All-ACC guard Sean Singletary will not go into the draft but return to Virginia for his senior season, his father told Virginia's Daily Progress.
"He said staying in school is something that you'll never be able to replace," Harold Singletary told the paper. "He said it would be just so fulfilling for him to finish out his education."

Information from ESPN Insider's Chad Ford and The Associated Press was used in this report.


Information from ESPN Insider's Chad Ford and The Associated Press was used in this report.

The Boston Celtics acquired guard Ray Allen from the Seattle Supersonics on Thursday night for Delonte West, Wally Szczerbiak and the rights to the 2007 NBA Draft's No. 5 overall pick -- Georgetown forward Jeff Green. Boston also gets the rights to the Sonics' 35th pick -- LSU's Glen Davis.
The blockbuster trade was first reported by ESPN.com's Andy Katz.
"You're always listening when you come into a situation like this. You don't wake up one day and look to move a player like a Ray Allen," said new Sonics' general manager Sam Presti. "Someone has to come get them and Boston did that here."
Allen will take his offensive prowess, pure shot and seven All-Star appearances to Boston and join with Paul Pierce. The move should quiet Pierce's comments, voiced several times, about being dissatisfied with the youth movement that could keep Boston from contending during his career.


-- Sonics GM Sam Presti

But for all his talent scoring the ball, Allen was a defensive
liability. Since his arrival on June 7 as the youngest GM in the NBA, Presti has constantly reiterated his desire to build a foundation based on defense.
"To make the decision to move a player -- and a person -- like
Ray Allen was tremendously difficult," Presti said. "Boston really pursued this. What started as a smaller conversation became fulfilled. Their pursuit was impeccable."
Seattle took another forward, Purdue's Carl Landry, with the
first pick of the second round. The Sonics will also get a future
second-round pick from Boston in the Allen trade.
In Allen's place comes Kevin Durant, the Texas star and The Associated Press college player of the year. As expected, Durant fell to the
Sonics after Portland took Ohio State center Greg Oden first overall.
When the trade was announced on ESPN minutes before the Sonics chose Durant, almost everyone in the crowd of about 2,000
season-ticket holders and invitees at a draft party at Seattle Center booed, hissed and pointed their thumbs down. Many were wearing gold Allen jerseys with his No. 34.
Those same fans cheered moments later as Durant's selection was announced and green and gold streamers flew.
"I want to personally compliment Ray Allen; Ray Allen the
person and Ray Allen the outstanding, professional player," said
team chairman Clay Bennett. "We appreciate the career of Ray Allen
in this market. And we wish him the very best."
Durant will take on Allen's role as the face of the franchise.
He'll also need to take on some of Allen's scoring punch.
Allen averaged a career-high 26.4 points last season, despite
being saddled by ankle problems that limited him to 55 games. He
underwent surgery on both his ankles in early April and a few weeks
ago said his recovery is on schedule.
Durant is ready for the challenge. The 18-year-old was
celebrating in New York on Thursday night, happy to finally know
which Northwest location he would play in.
"Now, I can start shopping for a home," he said.
Presti indicated that Allen's departure may increase the Sonics'
pursuit of Rashard Lewis, who becomes a free agent on July 1.
Should Lewis re-sign with Seattle, the Sonics could have five
players that play essentially the same position.
Presti sees this glut as a benefit, not a hindrance. He wants
players who can play a variety of positions and give a commitment
to defense.
"What we see in these players is tremendous versatility,"
Presti said. "We see guys that are skilled with the ball and have
a great size-to-skill ratio."
Green was an early entrant to the draft, after being the Big
East player of the year as a junior at Georgetown. Green averaged
14.3 points and 6.3 rebounds in helping the Hoyas reach the NCAA
Final Four.
The 6-foot-9, 235-pound Green is likely to be a power forward in the NBA but did not work out for the Sonics before the draft.
Szczerbiak has had ankle problems in recent seasons, and was
likely included in the deal to help offset the approximately $51
million remaining on Allen's salary. Szczerbiak is scheduled to
make $25 million over the next two seasons.
Szczerbiak played just 32 games last season before undergoing
ankle surgery, and averaged 15 points. West improved in his second
season, averaging 12.2 points and starting 47 games for the
Celtics.
Landry was a first-time all-Big Ten selection after averaging
18.9 points and 7.3 rebounds in his senior season at Purdue.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.


Wait ... did Kevin McHale just make a good trade?
I'm pretty sure he did, when he traded Antoine Walker, Marko Jaric, Greg Buckner and the rights to No. 3 pick O.J. Mayo to Memphis for Mike Miller, Brian Cardinal, Jason Collins and the rights to No. 5 pick Kevin Love.
When we break it down, it's hard to see how Minnesota loses:
Love is, in my estimation, the better of the two prospects. 
This is clearly not the consensus opinion; if it was, the Grizzlies wouldn't have thrown so much extra into this trade to get Mayo. But Love's numbers project him as a much better NBA player. And big guys have traditionally been more valued than guards in the NBA; hence the adage, "Don't trade big for small."
Love is a better fit in Minnesota than Mayo. 
The Wolves already have plenty of 6-foot-4 wing players (Randy Foye, Rashad McCants) and a shortage up front, where Love's ability to shoot and pass will keep the lane open for Al Jefferson to dominate. Obviously the Jefferson-Love combo raises some concerns at the defensive end, since neither is especially tall or moves well laterally, but offensively they could be devastating.
Of the other players in the trade, Miller is the only one worth a hoot.
He's another shooter who struggles to defend, but that weakness is more apparent on a bad team for which he has to start and play 40 minutes. Stick him in a sixth-man role, and he'll be dynamite.
The Wolves are taking on fewer dollars.
In the short term, the financial considerations are pretty much neutral: Memphis pays $2 million less this year, much of which is offset by the difference between the salary slots for No. 5 (Love) and No. 3 (Mayo).
But while Jaric and Cardinal have similarly large salaries, Jaric has three years left on his deal and Cardinal only two. Buckner has only $1 million guaranteed for the two years after 2008-09, and the contracts for the other two new Grizzlies expire next year. So the Grizzlies end up taking on more salary than Minnesota does, particularly in Year 3 when Jaric and Buckner are on the books for a combined $8.1 million.
Obviously, I don't like this trade as much for Memphis. If you're a Grizzlies fan, however, a couple glass-half-full points are worth mentioning.
First, while the Grizzlies were eager to get rid of Cardinal's absurd contract, the accountants weren't behind this deal -- it's essentially cap neutral in the short term and actually takes on additional money three years out. That's a positive sign.
Second, if you really think Mayo is the superior talent, then the price Memphis paid isn't extravagant. It costs them a bit of salary three years from now and a shooter. Obviously, I don't think that's a worthwhile price because I believe Love is the better player anyway, but the consensus among scouts is the opposite. If that view holds, then it's not a bad price to pay.
Incidentally, Memphis scored a nice coup later in the draft when it traded for Kansas' Darrell Arthur, a player whose projected third-year PER ranked third among all prospects in the draft.
John Hollinger writes for ESPN Insider. To e-mail him, click here.

SYRACUSE, N.Y. -- Syracuse freshman forward Donte Greene has declared himself eligible for the NBA draft.
Greene says he made the decision after discussing his future with his family and coach Jim Boeheim.
He led the Orange in scoring at 17.7 points per game, fourth-best in the Big East. He also averaged 7.2 rebounds and led the team in blocks to earn All-Big East rookie team honors.
Boeheim was not available for comment.

COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Ohio State freshman center Kosta Koufos will declare for the NBA draft but will not immediately sign with an agent, the school said Monday.
By not signing with an agent, the 7-foot Koufos leaves open the possibility of returning to the Buckeyes next season, Ohio State spokesman Dan Wallenberg said in a statement.
Koufos averaged 14.4 points and 6.7 rebounds for the Buckeyes last season and had 22 points and nine rebounds in Ohio State's win over Massachusetts in the NIT championship game.
The decision by Koufos to declare for the draft was reported earlier Monday by FoxSports.com and The Canton Repository.

Florida sophomore forward Marreese Speights will keep his name in the draft and not return to the Gators.
Speights told Billy Donovan on Thursday morning that he wouldn't return to Florida.
Speights averaged 14.5 points and 8.1 rebounds for the Gators. He is projected as a mid- to late first-round draft pick.
The deadline to withdraw from the draft is Monday.
A formal release from Florida is expected later Thursday.
Andy Katz covers men's college basketball for ESPN.com.

North Carolina sophomores Ty Lawson and Wayne Ellington and junior Danny Green withdrew from the NBA draft Monday.
Head coach Roy Williams confirmed that the trio would return to school.  The deadline to withdraw was 5 p.m. ET.
Ellington and Green were unable to secure a first-round draft pick guarantee. Their return, coupled with player of the year Tyler Hansbrough's return, makes UNC the prohibitive favorite to win the 2009 national title.
Ellington, Green and Lawson all participated in the Orlando pre-draft camp last month.
Also withdrawing from the draft to return for a senior season was Texas' A.J. Abrams, the guard announced.
Abrams, the all-time leader in 3-pointers made for the Longhorns with 284, helped lead Texas to the Elite Eight, a Big 12 regular-season title and a 31-7 record last season.
"When I sat down with my family and looked at my options, I knew I wanted to come back, finish what I have started," Abrams said in a statement.
Memphis junior Robert Dozier also withdrew from the draft and will return for his final season of eligibility.
"I appreciate the opportunity to go through the process," Dozier said in a statement. "I loved the workouts, and I truly appreciate the honesty of all parties involved, especially the NBA personnel.
"I'm coming back with the mind-set that next year's team can be even better than what we were a year ago, knowing a lot of that will fall on my shoulders," he said.
Memphis made it to the national championship game last season but lost to Kansas 75-68 in overtime.
"I want Robert to come back with two things in mind -- to help the team win a national championship and become the player of the year in college basketball," Memphis head coach John Calipari said in a statement.
Others withdrawing were UAB junior guard Robert Vaden, Gonzaga junior guard Jeremy Pargo and Alabama redshirt senior guard Ronald Steele.
Vaden will return for his senior season, Blazers coach Mike Davis told ESPN.com via text message Monday morning. Vaden was projected to be a likely second-round pick had he stayed in the NBA draft.
Pargo will return to the Bulldogs for his senior season after sending in his paperwork to the NBA office Monday afternoon, Gonzaga assistant Tommy Lloyd told ESPN.com.  A source close to Steele confirmed his withdrawal to ESPN.com.
Vaden will be a fifth-year senior and will enter the season as one of the top scoring guards in the country. Vaden averaged 21.1 points a game in his only season with the Blazers after transferring from Indiana when Davis left the Hoosiers to coach the Blazers.
With Vaden, UAB should expect to challenge for second place in Conference USA behind likely league favorite Memphis.
Vaden made 142 3-pointers last season.
Pargo, projected as a second-round pick had he stayed in the draft, played in the Orlando pre-draft camp and had a number of workouts in the past 10 days, including working out with Seattle on Sunday. His brother, Jannero Pargo, played for the New Orleans Hornets last season.
Pargo was the WCC Player of the Year last season, averaging 12.1 points and six assists for the Zags. He scored 20 or more points five times during the season.
His return means the Zags will likely be a top-10 preseason team.
Steele sent in the paperwork Monday afternoon in time to beat the deadline to withdraw. Steele worked out Monday morning for Charlotte after working out Sunday for Utah and was at the group workout at the Golden State Warriors' facility earlier in the weekend.
Steele didn't play last season while recovering from knee surgery. He did play at the Orlando pre-draft camp.
Alabama junior forward Richard Hendrix will remain in the draft.
Steele will now play with his brother, Andrew, a point guard who was signed for next season.
Steele's best season was in 2005-06 when he averaged 14.3 points a game for the Tide.
Arizona guard Chase Budinger also decided to return to school. He averaged 17.1 points, 5.4 rebounds and 2.9 assists per game in 34 appearances last season and became the 42nd player in Arizona history to score 1,000 career points on March 6.
Also choosing to return to school were the University of Tennessee at Martin's Lester Hudson and Cal State Fullerton guard Josh Akognon.
Hudson, who averaged 25.7 points last season, became the first Division I men's player to record a quadruple-double -- 25 points, 12 rebounds, 10 assists and 10 steals against Central Baptist.
Information from ESPN.com senior writer Andy Katz and The Associated Press was used in this report.

Kansas State Wildcats redshirt freshman Bill Walker will remain in the NBA draft despite injuring his right knee at a workout over the weekend, his adviser, Chris Rivers, said Monday afternoon.
Cal sophomore forward Ryan Anderson was also to remain in the draft and not return for his junior season, Anderson told ESPN.com Monday afternoon.
"I felt like this was the best possible decision for me," Anderson said. "Everybody kept telling me after my workouts that I'm an NBA player. This was, though, one of the hardest decisions I've ever made."
UCLA's Luc Richard Mbah a Moute, DeAndre Jordan of Texas A&M and Alabama's Richard Hendrix will also enter the NBA draft.
Italian star Danilo Gallinari will also stay in the draft, his father Vittorio Gallinari told 1050 ESPN New York's Andrew Marchand. Gallinari was considering dropping out of if he wasn't guaranteed a spot in the top 10.
The deadline to withdraw from the NBA draft was Monday at 5 p.m. ET.
Rivers, the director of basketball at Reebok, said that an MRI taken Monday on Walker didn't reveal a tear of the MCL or the ACL, which was feared when Walker heard a pop prior to working out for 21 teams at the Golden State Warriors' practice facility in Oakland.
Rivers said he is confident that Walker will be a first-round draft pick and that this latest setback wasn't enough to keep him out of the draft. Rivers said he was going to circulate the MRI results to teams over the coming days. He said there was an injury but he termed it a minor injury.
Walker has had multiple knee injuries during his playing career. He played in six games during the 2006-07 season before tearing his ACL in his left knee. He graduated from high school that October and became eligible for Kansas State in December. Playing as the understudy to Michael Beasley on the Wildcats this season, Walker averaged 16.1 points and 6.3 rebounds.
Walker has worked out for Detroit, which has the 29th pick, and Toronto, which has the 17th. He turned down an invitation to the Orlando pre-draft camp last month.
The 6-foot-10 Anderson, projected as a late first-round or high second-round pick, averaged 21.1 points and 9.9 rebounds a game for the Bears, who failed to secure a berth in the NCAA tournament last season.
Anderson worked out for Orlando, Toronto, Boston, Indiana, Detroit, Cleveland and Golden State, which was conducted at the Warriors' facility last weekend in front of 21 teams. He said he would sit down in the coming days to schedule at least six more workouts.
UCLA coach Ben Howland said Mbah a Moute will hire an agent and forgo his senior season with the Bruins. The 6-foot-8 forward from Cameroon became the first player to start in three consecutive Final Fours since 1999-01. He averaged 10.3 rebounds in the NCAA tournament, and had 12 points and 13 rebounds in UCLA's national semifinal loss to Memphis.
"After speaking to my family and going through the process, I feel like the time is right for me to take the next step in my basketball career and keep my name in the NBA draft," Mbah a Moute said in a statement.
Jordan, a 7-foot freshman center, told Aggies coach Mark Turgeon he would remain in the NBA draft with hopes of becoming the third Aggie taken in the first round since 2005.
Jordan averaged 7.9 points and a team-high 6.0 rebounds last season. The Aggies lost to UCLA in the second round of the NCAA tournament.
Texas A&M's Acie Law was taken 11th by Atlanta last year, and Antoine Wright went 15th to New Jersey in 2005.
Hendrix was the Crimson Tide's leading scorer and rebounder last season.
Information from ESPN.com senior writer Andy Katz and The Associated Press was used in this report.

Hours before the NBA draft, the New Jersey Nets and Milwaukee Bucks completed a trade that may suit both teams' long-term needs.
In a deal first reported by ESPN.com's Marc Stein, New Jersey sends forward Richard Jefferson to Milwaukee for forwards Yi Jianlian and Bobby Simmons. No draft picks are involved in the trade.
The swap creates an estimated $10-plus million in long-term savings for the Nets as they continue to reshape their team after trading another mainstay -- point guard Jason Kidd -- to Dallas in February.
Milwaukee has been looking to rid itself of several bloated contracts and decided it was worth trading the rookie that former general manager Larry Harris selected last year along with the rest of Simmons' contract. Simmons has two years and a little more than $20 million left on his deal.
Harris was let go in March, and new general manager John Hammond is looking to fill several spots after the team tumbled to a 26-56 finish. Jefferson provides veteran leadership to a team desperately seeking winners in the locker room.
"Richard Jefferson is a hardworking, proven, dynamic performer at the forward position," Hammond said. "He's an aggressive player with terrific credentials over his career. He's been a winner, having gone to the playoffs in six of his seven seasons, and we're excited to bring him to Milwaukee."
The trade also enables Yi to make a move to the larger media market he was hoping for this time last year, when he was taken with the sixth overall pick. Kiki Vandeweghe, New Jersey's new general manager alongside team president Rod Thorn, is a longstanding Yi fan who has frequently likened the 7-footer's perimeter skills and potential to Dallas Mavericks forward Dirk Nowitzki.
"We certainly gave up a good player, but to get a good player you have to give up a good player. With Yi, we feel his upside is very up," Thorn said. "We feel strongly he's going to be a real good player for us.
"We feel that Yi can be a very special player. He is a 20-year-old 7-footer who shoots the ball extremely well, and he is an excellent addition to our frontcourt."
Yi took his time signing with Milwaukee after being selected in last year's draft and wasn't swayed to join Milwaukee until a contingent that included owner and U.S. Sen. Herb Kohl traveled to China to complete the deal.
Yi made 49 starts and played in 66 games, averaging 8.6 points and 5.2 rebounds. He vied with Charlie Villanueva for playing time.
Simmons never lived up to a five-year, $47 million contract he signed in the offseason after being honored as the NBA's Most Improved Player in 2005. After a tough first year adjusting, he missed the entire 2006-07 season with ankle and foot injuries and averaged just 7.6 points in 70 games last season.
"He's greatly appreciative of everything the Bucks have done for him. They gave him a terrific contract, a great opportunity. He's had some injuries, which have been really unfortunate," Simmons' agent, Mark Bartelstein, said. "In tough times, you need a fresh start to kind of change your luck."
The Bucks are also supplying new coach Scott Skiles with a veteran player coming off his best season to fill a problem position. Jefferson averaged 22.7 points per game last season and played all 82 games after an injury-plagued 2006-07 season.
The Nets get cap room and rid themselves a large contract, too. Jefferson, the second-leading scorer in Nets history, averaged 22.6 points last season and has three years and more than $42 million left on his contract.
"I want to thank Richard for his contributions to the Nets over the past seven years," Thorn said. "He always conducted himself in a professional manner, and we wish him only the best for the remainder of his career."
The move continues the rebuilding of the franchise in the post-Kidd era and puts New Jersey in position to be a major player in the 2010 offseason, which is expected to include a bumper crop of free agents such as LeBron James.
Milwaukee's starting lineup also looks much clearer after the trade. Mo Williams will start at the point, Michael Redd at shooting guard, Jefferson and Villanueva at forward and Andrew Bogut, the No. 1 pick in 2005, at center.
ESPN.com senior NBA writer Marc Stein contributed to this report. Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

The Minnesota Timberwolves did not hold onto O.J. Mayo for long.
The Wolves have reached an agreement in principle with the Memphis Grizzlies that sends the draft rights to Mayo, Marko Jaric, Antoine Walker and Greg Buckner to the Grizzlies in return for the draft rights to Kevin Love, Mike Miller, Brian Cardinal and Jason Collins.
The blockbuster deal for both teams wasn't completed until past 2 a.m. ET, some two hours after Boston made the 60th and final pick of the draft, according to The Associated Press.
ESPN.com reported on Tuesday that Wolves GM Kevin McHale was infatuated with Love, but felt that the team had to select Mayo and use him to acquire more assets. Love, a fundamentally-sound post player, should mesh well with the Timberwolves' budding star Al Jefferson.
In addition to landing Love, the Wolves get a sharpshooting swingman in Miller who can help carry the scoring load from the perimeter. The deal is also a financial boon for the Timberwolves, who get the bad contract of Jaric (three years, $21 million) off the books. Walker's and Buckner's contracts are not guaranteed after this season.
Timberwolves fans will likely be reminded of another lottery-swapping move two years ago, when Minnesota selected Brandon Roy, then traded him to Portland for Randy Foye and cash.
Roy went on to become rookie of the year in 2006-07 and an All-Star last season, while Foye has struggled with injuries while showing promise as a floor leader and playmaking perimeter threat.
The Grizzlies get the superstar they wanted in the backcourt in Mayo. They also rid themselves of Cardinal's bad contract (two years, $13 million). The Grizzlies now have a glut of guards on the team with Mayo, Mike Conley, Kyle Lowry and Javaris Crittenton.
Chad Ford covers the NBA for ESPN Insider. Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

Spain's Ricky Rubio heads our list of the top point guard prospects in the 2009 draft.Josep Lago/AFP/Getty ImagesWith a subpar freshman class, a weak international crop and a lack of star potential, the 2009 NBA draft is shaping up to be the weakest in years. And NBA scouts are looking for bright spots wherever they can find them.This year, the one shining light is that the draft is chock-full of excellent point-guard prospects. A whopping nine point guards are currently ranked in our top 30, and 14 are ranked in the top 60. As many as eight of those point guards could even crack the lottery this year.For this week's Stock Watch, we've spoken with numerous GMs and NBA scouts to get their take on the top 10 players at one of the most important positions in the draft.1. Ricky Rubio, Spain
Rubio has been on NBA radar screens for years. But it was his solid play against Team USA in the Olympics that convinced NBA scouts and players that he had the goods to make it in the league. A wrist injury kept him out of action for the first month of the season, but he's slowly finding his way on the court. His scoring is down, but his assists are up; he recorded an impressive 12 assists in his most recent game.While there are legitimate questions about Rubio's draft eligibility this year -- he has a large buyout with his team, DKV Joventut -- I'm told he will likely declare for the draft and come to the NBA as long as he's a top-three pick. Given the need for point guards at the top of the draft, that seems like a safe bet.2. Jrue Holiday, UCLA
Holiday doesn't even play the point for UCLA. But neither did Russell Westbrook, who was drafted No. 4 in the 2008 draft and is now running the point for the Thunder.While Holiday's game isn't flashy, he has the complete package of athleticism, basketball IQ and defensive tenacity that scouts love. He currently looks as though he could go anywhere from 4 to 10 on draft night if he declares.3. Jeff Teague, Wake Forest
Teague is the fastest riser on the board. He has been on a tear lately and has led Wake Forest to an undefeated record, with huge wins over BYU and North Carolina. He's averaging over 30 points a game in his past three outings and has shown he can score from anywhere. One minute he's nailing a 3; the next he's taking it to the basket for the bucket or a foul. While scouts worry that he may not be a true point guard, his stellar play is quickly winning over even his harshest critics.  In the past few weeks he's jumped from 32, to 18 to 9 on our Big Board.4. Stephen Curry, Davidson
Curry might be the most controversial player on this list. Some scouts don't believe he's a point guard. Others worry about his diminutive stature or his lack of explosiveness as an athlete. Still others fret about some of Curry's disappearing acts against quality teams. However, no one doubts that Curry's shooting ability, basketball IQ and clutch play -- combined with an excellent basketball pedigree -- make him a player who will likely be drafted in the lottery.There's been talk that the Bobcats could be the club that covets him (and the seats he'd fill) the most  but it's way too early for that speculation. Besides, you'd think MJ & Co. would have learned by now that drafting players with local or marketing appeal (e.g., Raymond Felton, Sean May and Adam Morrison) doesn't help much if they're not going to be stars.Brandon Jennings' tour in Europe has seen mixed results, but he's first-round material.Luca Sgamellotti/EB/Getty Images5. Brandon Jennings, Italy
Jennings took a huge risk by bypassing college and going straight to Europe. To date, the experiment has had a mixed bag of results. On the positive side, Jennings is playing on an excellent team in a talented league. The experience has been priceless. On the flip side, Jennings hasn't exactly been lighting up the competition over there. He's been improving lately, but not to the point that it's clear he's an elite prospect.Many scouts still believe Jennings is the best point-guard prospect in the draft based on pure talent. But his study-abroad trip makes it tough to tell whether he's as bad as his stats sometimes suggest, or whether the brilliance of his game is just somehow lost in translation.Workouts will be the key to where Jennings ultimately gets drafted. The range is still pretty wide open. No one would be shocked if he were a top-five pick. Nor would anyone be surprised if he slipped into the mid-first round.6. Willie Warren, Oklahoma
Warren has quietly become one of the top freshmen in the country. Scouts have been impressed with his combination of size, athleticism and ability to score. While there is a legitimate question about what Warren's true position is, the truth is he has the size to play multiple positions in the NBA.If Oklahoma goes deep in the tournament, Warren might end up cracking the lottery.7. Jonny Flynn, Syracuse
Flynn is the little engine that could. His toughness and fearlessness have scouts buzzing. He has hit a bit of a slump lately, but earlier in the season many scouts and a few GMs began mentioning him as a lottery pick, despite his lack of size and questionable defensive ability.Right now he's looking like a potential mid-first-round pick.8. Ty Lawson, North Carolina
Poor Ty Lawson. He's had one of the most volatile stock ratings of any player we've ever tracked. One minute scouts think he might be a lottery pick. The next, scouts have him on the first-round bubble.Lawson has been excellent for most of the season, but after Teague abused him in a rare Tar Heels loss, you could hear the air begin to escape from Lawson's bubble. While he still has the talent to crack the lottery, it will take a brilliant performance in the NCAA tournament -- something he hasn't been able to pull off in the past -- to convince an NBA team to hand over the keys to him.9. Patrick Mills, St. Mary's (Calif.)
Mills is still basking in the rave reviews he earned this summer while playing for Australia in the Olympics. However, his numbers at St. Mary's are good, but not stellar. His high turnover rate and poor shooting percentage have dipped his stock back onto the first-round bubble.10. Darren Collison, UCLA
Collison has to be struggling with the idea that for the second straight year an NBA team might draft a player who sits behind him on the depth chart at UCLA. Still, Collison continues to do his thing.He has terrific speed and has improved as a shooter. But his smallish stature and questionable floor leadership have him stuck on the first-round bubble.Other point-guard prospects in the top 100: Nick Calathes, Florida; Eric Maynor, Virginia Commonwealth; Sherron Collins, Kansas; Kemba Walker, UConn, Curtis Jerrells, Baylor; Jeremy Pargo, Gonzaga; Nando De Colo, France; Tyshawn Taylor, Kansas; A.J. Price, UConn; Courtney Fortson, Arkansas; Scottie Reynolds, Villanova; Jeremy Lin, Harvard; Tyrese Rice, Boston CollegeChad Ford covers the NBA for ESPN Insider.

With a subpar freshman class, a weak international crop and a lack of star potential, the 2009 NBA draft is shaping up to be the weakest in years. And NBA scouts are looking for bright spots wherever they can find them.
This year, the one shining light is that the draft is chock-full of excellent point-guard prospects. A whopping nine point guards are currently ranked in our top 30, and 14 are ranked in the top 60. As many as eight of those point guards could even crack the lottery this year.
For this week's Stock Watch, we've spoken with numerous GMs and NBA scouts to get their take on the top 10 players at one of the most important positions in the draft.
1. Ricky Rubio, Spain
Rubio has been on NBA radar screens for years. But it was his solid play against Team USA in the Olympics that convinced NBA scouts and players that he had the goods to make it in the league. A wrist injury kept him out of action for the first month of the season, but he's slowly finding his way on the court. His scoring is down, but his assists are up; he recorded an impressive 12 assists in his most recent game.
While there are legitimate questions about Rubio's draft eligibility this year -- he has a large buyout with his team, DKV Joventut -- I'm told he will likely declare for the draft and come to the NBA as long as he's a top-three pick. Given the need for point guards at the top of the draft, that seems like a safe bet.
2. Jrue Holiday, UCLA
Holiday doesn't even play the point for UCLA. But neither did Russell Westbrook, who was drafted No. 4 in the 2008 draft and is now running the point for the Thunder.
While Holiday's game isn't flashy, he has the complete package of athleticism, basketball IQ and defensive tenacity that scouts love. He currently looks as though he could go anywhere from 4 to 10 on draft night if he declares.
3. Jeff Teague, Wake Forest
Teague is the fastest riser on the board. He has been on a tear lately and has led Wake Forest to an undefeated record, with huge wins over BYU and North Carolina. He's averaging over 30 points a game in his past three outings and has shown he can score from anywhere. One minute he's nailing a 3; the next he's taking it to the basket for the bucket or a foul. While scouts worry that he may not be a true point guard, his stellar play is quickly winning over even his harshest critics.  In the past few weeks he's jumped from 32, to 18 to 9 on our Big Board.
4. Stephen Curry, Davidson
Curry might be the most controversial player on this list. Some scouts don't believe he's a point guard. Others worry about his diminutive stature or his lack of explosiveness as an athlete. Still others fret about some of Curry's disappearing acts against quality teams. However, no one doubts that Curry's shooting ability, basketball IQ and clutch play -- combined with an excellent basketball pedigree -- make him a player who will likely be drafted in the lottery.
There's been talk that the Bobcats could be the club that covets him (and the seats he'd fill) the most  but it's way too early for that speculation. Besides, you'd think MJ & Co. would have learned by now that drafting players with local or marketing appeal (e.g., Raymond Felton, Sean May and Adam Morrison) doesn't help much if they're not going to be stars.
5. Brandon Jennings, Italy
Jennings took a huge risk by bypassing college and going straight to Europe. To date, the experiment has had a mixed bag of results. On the positive side, Jennings is playing on an excellent team in a talented league. The experience has been priceless. On the flip side, Jennings hasn't exactly been lighting up the competition over there. He's been improving lately, but not to the point that it's clear he's an elite prospect.
Many scouts still believe Jennings is the best point-guard prospect in the draft based on pure talent. But his study-abroad trip makes it tough to tell whether he's as bad as his stats sometimes suggest, or whether the brilliance of his game is just somehow lost in translation.
Workouts will be the key to where Jennings ultimately gets drafted. The range is still pretty wide open. No one would be shocked if he were a top-five pick. Nor would anyone be surprised if he slipped into the mid-first round.
6. Willie Warren, Oklahoma
Warren has quietly become one of the top freshmen in the country. Scouts have been impressed with his combination of size, athleticism and ability to score. While there is a legitimate question about what Warren's true position is, the truth is he has the size to play multiple positions in the NBA.
If Oklahoma goes deep in the tournament, Warren might end up cracking the lottery.
7. Jonny Flynn, Syracuse
Flynn is the little engine that could. His toughness and fearlessness have scouts buzzing. He has hit a bit of a slump lately, but earlier in the season many scouts and a few GMs began mentioning him as a lottery pick, despite his lack of size and questionable defensive ability.
Right now he's looking like a potential mid-first-round pick.
8. Ty Lawson, North Carolina
Poor Ty Lawson. He's had one of the most volatile stock ratings of any player we've ever tracked. One minute scouts think he might be a lottery pick. The next, scouts have him on the first-round bubble.
Lawson has been excellent for most of the season, but after Teague abused him in a rare Tar Heels loss, you could hear the air begin to escape from Lawson's bubble. While he still has the talent to crack the lottery, it will take a brilliant performance in the NCAA tournament -- something he hasn't been able to pull off in the past -- to convince an NBA team to hand over the keys to him.
9. Patrick Mills, St. Mary's (Calif.)
Mills is still basking in the rave reviews he earned this summer while playing for Australia in the Olympics. However, his numbers at St. Mary's are good, but not stellar. His high turnover rate and poor shooting percentage have dipped his stock back onto the first-round bubble.
10. Darren Collison, UCLA
Collison has to be struggling with the idea that for the second straight year an NBA team might draft a player who sits behind him on the depth chart at UCLA. Still, Collison continues to do his thing.
He has terrific speed and has improved as a shooter. But his smallish stature and questionable floor leadership have him stuck on the first-round bubble.
Other point-guard prospects in the top 100: Nick Calathes, Florida; Eric Maynor, Virginia Commonwealth; Sherron Collins, Kansas; Kemba Walker, UConn, Curtis Jerrells, Baylor; Jeremy Pargo, Gonzaga; Nando De Colo, France; Tyshawn Taylor, Kansas; A.J. Price, UConn; Courtney Fortson, Arkansas; Scottie Reynolds, Villanova; Jeremy Lin, Harvard; Tyrese Rice, Boston College
Chad Ford covers the NBA for ESPN Insider.

DAVIDSON, N.C. --  The big schools didn't want Stephen Curry, then were helpless in stopping his sweet-shooting stroke as he put tiny Davidson into the national spotlight.
Now after three seasons and plenty of records, Curry is taking his game to the NBA, presenting more intrigue in how the skinny, baby-faced guard with the great genes will fare at the next level.
The nation's leading scorer announced at an on-campus news conference Thursday that he's skipping his senior season to enter the NBA draft. His father, former NBA sharpshooter Dell Curry, attended the announcement, along with his mother, Sonya, and Davidson coach Bob McKillop.
Curry said he will hire an agent, ending any chance that he'll return to campus and perhaps break Pete Maravich's NCAA Division I career scoring record.
"I think I'm mentally and physically ready to make that jump," said Curry, who believes he'll be selected somewhere between seventh and 20th overall. "This is a dream of mine since I was a little kid."
The lightly recruited Curry burst onto the national scene a year ago in helping Davidson of the unheralded Southern Conference get within a missed a 3-pointer of the Final Four.
The 6-foot-3 Curry moved to point guard this season and averaged 28.6 points. He had 15 games of 30 or more points and three of 40 or more as teams couldn't find a way to stop him.
Still, the decision tore at Curry's stomach much more than he expected. Two days after scoring 26 points in Davidson's loss to Saint Mary's in the NIT, Curry said he'd quickly make up his mind after speaking with his parents.
Dell Curry told his son he'd likely be a lottery pick and probably wouldn't improve his draft status by waiting a year.
But the younger Curry wavered because of his desire to get his college degree. Davidson does not have a summer school program, and he unsuccessfully tried to get school officials to bend a policy that requires seniors to take the majority of their classes on campus.
"During the whole process, some days I would say, 'I think I'm going to stay,' " Curry said. "Then some doubts would come in and I'd say, 'I'm going to leave.' Then more doubts would come in and I would keep going back and forth."
Curry told school officials Wednesday afternoon he would announce his decision on Thursday, but didn't tell McKillop or his father what he'd do.
The uncertainty captivated the region, with four Charlotte-area television stations broadcasting the news conference live. Curry said he finally made up his mind 90 minutes earlier while "eating an omelet" in the school cafeteria.
"It took me that long to figure it out," Curry said. "I decided to sleep on it last night. I was at peace this morning and that's what I was looking for."
Despite a weaker supporting cast than a season ago, Curry shot 45 percent from the field in 2008-09, including 39 percent from 3-point range. He was voted a first-team Associated Press All-American.
He finished his college career with a school record 2,635 points, which ranks 25th in NCAA Division I history, and 414 3-pointers, fourth on the all-time list.
If Curry had returned for his senior season, he would have had an outside shot at breaking Maravich's four decade-old record of 3,667 points.
"He's become the face of college basketball. He's become the face of Davidson basketball," McKillop said, tears in his eyes. "As special as he has been to us, he will be equally special in the NBA. I've been incredibly fortunate to have the opportunity to coach him these three years."
While Curry was perhaps the best shooter in college basketball, there are questions about how successful he'll be in the NBA. Curry will have to beef up his slight frame to withstand the rigors of an 82-game schedule. He's also still adjusting to the move to point guard, a position he'll likely have to play be a starter in the NBA.
Curry struggled at times when facing taller defenders with long arms, a likely nightly occurrence at the next level. But his lightning-quick release, surprising quickness, high basketball IQ and late growth spurt will make lottery teams take notice.
"He's shown that he can play and he's ready," Dell Curry said.
Curry has plenty of high-profile fans, too. Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James attended a Davidson NCAA tournament game last year and sat courtside in December when Curry scored 44 points in a win over North Carolina State.
"He's like a [Richard] Hamilton in our league. He never stops moving," James said after that game. "He's the type of player that's hard to guard no matter how big you are. Guys in the NBA don't want to continue to chase guys like that."
The major schools ignored Curry in high school because he was just 5-foot-9 in his junior year. He reached 6-feet as a freshman at Davidson and grew three more inches. After getting an MRI exam on an injured ankle in February, Curry said a doctor told him his growth plates showed he could sprout another two inches.
His father had a similar late growth spurt at Virginia Tech. Dell Curry then spent 16 years in the NBA, mostly with the Charlotte Hornets. He works in the Charlotte Bobcats' front office.
Stephen Curry said he'll finish classes this semester, then begin a rigorous workout program. He'll attend the NBA pre-draft event in Chicago next month, then work out for a handful of teams based on the results of the draft lottery.
"If you look at my body compared to some point guards and [shooting] guards, I have a lot of work to do," Curry said. "But if you saw me my freshman year, people were saying, 'Who's this kid in sixth grade walking around in college?' "

Patrick Ewing and Dwight Howard worked out at one end of the court, a couple guys who know what it's like to be the grand prize in the draft lottery.
At the other end Sunday night were the Boston Celtics, who've been ruined and resurrected by the NBA's ultimate game of luck -- without ever winning it.
After a quarter century of building champions and breaking hearts, the lottery celebrates its 25th birthday Tuesday, with the real party being held by the team that wins it and earns the right to pick Oklahoma's Blake Griffin.
"I think it's pretty much accepted by our fans now and our teams get into it," commissioner David Stern said. "It's just another way to promote the potential for next season, particularly and for the most part for those teams who have the most need for next season. And that's what makes it good."
Sacramento, after finishing with a league-worst 17-65 record, has a 25 percent chance of landing the No. 1 pick. The Kings shouldn't prepare a jersey for the All-America forward just yet, though: Not since 2004, when the Orlando Magic ended up with Howard, has the team with the worst record won the lottery.
That's why some teams hate it. Jerry West blasted the system in 2007, when his Memphis Grizzlies had the best chance to win one of the most anticipated lotteries ever and ended up falling to the fourth pick.
The Celtics didn't like it much either that night, since they had the second-best shot at Greg Oden or Kevin Durant, and settled for the No. 5 pick. That came 10 years after they were heartbroken by missing out on Tim Duncan despite the best odds of winning the lottery.
At least the second time they didn't let their bad luck lead to more bad play, sending that No. 5 pick to Seattle in a trade for Ray Allen, a move that convinced Kevin Garnett to accept a move to Boston and leading to the Celtics' 17th NBA title last season.
The easier way is for teams to have the lottery create the luck for them.
No team has done that better than San Antonio, which used lottery wins 10 years apart to land David Robinson and Duncan, starting its run of four NBA titles. Orlando won consecutive lotteries in 1992 and '93, getting Shaquille O'Neal the first time and trading the rights to the second for Penny Hardaway, and those two would team on an Eastern Conference championship squad in 1995.
Of course, there's more to it than just winning the pick. It has to come at the right time, and teams have to do the right thing with it.
"What we tell our fans is that if a team is well managed and it isn't doing so well, it will have the opportunity under the NBA system to improve," Stern said.
Instead of Howard, a high school player, the Magic could have gone for Emeka Okafor, who had a decorated career at Connecticut but has been only solid, not spectacular, as a pro. Houston also went for the lesser known in 2002 and it paid off, taking Yao Ming instead of Duke All-American Jay Williams, whose career was wrecked after leg injuries sustained in a motorcycle accident.
"You're hoping that the players turn out to be what you expect them to be. And again, a lot of things play into it," said Magic guard Rafer Alston, who this season played with both Yao and Howard.
"You remember with Sam Bowie, health issues played a major role, he never overcame health issues so could never become the dominant player he was coming out of Kentucky. Ewing just continued to get better and better, and he turned not only a franchise but a whole city around. I think Dwight is on that path, a Ewing path, an [Hakeem] Olajuwon path."
Ewing was the first lottery prize, going to the New York Knicks in 1985. The NBA changed how the top pick was awarded following the 1984 draft, when Olajuwon and Bowie went 1-2 -- with Michael Jordan going third -- after concerns that teams were losing on purpose to finish with the worst record possible and secure a high pick.
The lottery has undergone some tweaks since. It was changed to set only the top three picks, with the remainder of the first round going in inverse order of a team's finish. The system was later weighted to give teams with the worst record the most chances to win, and modified again in 1993 to further favor the teams that needed the most help after Orlando went .500, just missed the playoffs, and won the lottery.
And it's created its share of controversy along the way, notably the theory that one of the envelopes in 1985 was either frozen or heated, so Stern would know which one to grab and send Ewing to New York.
"I wish I had as much sway as the conspiracists attribute to me," Stern said. "Lotteries have to do with chance and this lottery follows that for the most part."
Washington (17.8 percent) and the Clippers (17.7 percent) follow Sacramento with the best chances for No. 1, and 14 teams will arrive in Secaucus, N.J., with hopes that the right combination of pingpong balls can spark an immediate turnaround.
Remember what the Cleveland Cavaliers were like before they won the 2003 lottery and got to pick LeBron James?
"I think it has become part of the sport's culture now," Stern said.

EDS: UPDATES throughout.
AP Photo NYFF122
By JIM O'CONNELL
AP Basketball Writer
NEW YORK -- There must be something about basketball bloodlines.
Three players whose fathers played in the NBA were chosen in the top 15 picks of the draft Thursday night.
Stephen Curry, whose father Dell played in the league for 16 seasons, was taken with the seventh pick by Golden State. The nation's leading scorer last season as a junior at Davidson with a 28.6 average, Curry led the Wildcats within a game of the Final Four as a sophomore.
"You always dream that you want to do what your dad does, especially I went to the gym, shootaround, the locker room and all that stuff and that's all I know," Curry said. "I wanted to follow in his footsteps but I didn't think it would be a reality until pretty much my sophomore year in college."
Gerald Henderson, whose father with the same name played for 13 years in the NBA and was on three championship teams with Boston and one with Detroit, was selected 12th by Charlotte. Henderson was a third-team All-America at Duke last season as a junior, averaging 16.5 points.
"He just told me I made it," Henderson said of what his father told him when he was selected. "I worked so hard to get to this point, and he just congratulated me and told me I made it. It's good to hear those words."
Austin Daye, who left Gonzaga after his sophomore season, was taken 15th by Detroit. His father Darren played five seasons in the NBA. Daye averaged 12.7 points and shot 43 percent from 3-point range for the Zags last season.
"I was able to be a sponge growing up, absorb all the things that he said," Daye said of his father. "He's been a great mentor and he's definitely the person I looked up to the most."
At least one son of a former NBA player has been taken in the last seven drafts.
The run started in 2002 with Mike Dunleavy and continued with Luke Walton (2003), Jackson Vroman (2004), Sean May (2005), Ronnie Brewer (2006), Al Horford (2007) and Kevin Love and Patrick Ewing Jr. (2008).
---
CONFERENCE LOTTERY: Even though it was the NBA's night, there was still plenty of college rivalry on display at the draft.
The Atlantic Coast Conference had the most players taken in the first round with seven, one more than the Pac-10 and three more than the Big East. The Big 12, with two, was the only other conference with more than one played selected in the first round, which had 30 picks.
---
BOW TIE: It was easy to pick out James Harden when the future NBA players were having a group picture taken about a half hour before the draft. Harden was the only one with a bow tie.
After being taken with the third pick by Oklahoma City, the Arizona State guard was asked about his neck wear and if he tied it himself.
"No," he admitted quickly. "I tried it so many times, it wasn't working, so I had my stylist come up to me to give me a session to help me do it."
Harden, a native of Los Angeles, was taken by Oklahoma City, while Blake Griffin, a native of Oklahoma City, was taken No. 1 overall by the Los Angeles Clippers.
Harden had an idea for Griffin.
"I told him we should switch, he should go to Oklahoma and I should go to LA, and everything would be great," Harden said. "Obviously it doesn't work that way."
---
INTERNATIONAL FLAVOR: Ricky Rubio, the 18-year-old guard from Spain, became the fifth-highest international player ever taken when Minnesota selected him with the No. 5 pick.
Six international players were taken in the first round, tying for the fifth-most since 1993. Nine international players were selected in the first round in 2003, eight went in 2004 and seven were chosen in 2000 and 2005. This was the seventh time six players were taken in the first round.
Two international players -- Yao Ming of China in 2002 by Houston and Andrea Bargnani of Italy in 2006 by Toronto -- were taken No. 1 overall. Darko Milicic of what was then Serbia-Montenegro, was chosen second overall by Detroit in 2003. Pau Gasol of Spain was taken No. 3 by Memphis in 2001.
Danilo Gallinari of Italy was taken sixth by New York last year.
Rubio played on Spain's team that won the silver medal behind the United States in Beijing.
"I realized in the Olympic Games that I'm feeling good in the game, so that moment, I realize that I can play here, and that helps me a lot," Rubio said.
The Spaniard had spoken during the week that his mother wouldn't be overly happy if he was taken by a team that plays in a cold climate.
Jonny Flynn was taken with the next pick by Minnesota, and the native of Buffalo, N.Y., who played at Syracuse was ready to help his new teammate.
"He's coming from Spain. I don't think it ever snows there," Flynn said. "I can give him what kind of clothes to buy and what snowshoes to buy and things like that, and it will be fun."
---
SENIOR CLASS: Terrence Williams of Louisville was the first senior taken in the draft with the 11th selection by New Jersey.
"It says a lot. It says, you stay in school four years, it does pay off or you," he said. "To go 11, some people call it a weak draft. I call it a great draft."
---
TAXING SITUATION: Demar DeRozan was selected by the Toronto Raptors and he was asked if his agent was happy with that selection considering the onerous tax system in Canada.
"He's glad for me to go a team like this, I think this was one of the best situations for me," the Southern California freshman said. "We are figuring out about the tax system, so right now I am just enjoying this. I've got to save all the receipts, that's one thing I'm going to do."
---
BIG 12: Blake Griffin became the first player from the Big 12 taken with the overall No. 1 pick. The conference expanded from the Big 8 in 1996, and the Big 12 did have an impressive streak broken when Griffin was taken by the Los Angeles Clippers.
A Big 12 player was taken second overall the last three years: LaMarcus Aldridge of Texas by Chicago in 2006; Kevin Durant of Texas by Seattle in 2007; and Michael Beasley of Kansas State by Miami last year.
The last Big 8 player taken No. 1 was also tabbed by the Clippers, Danny Manning of Kansas in 1988. The only other No. 1 pick owned by the Clippers was Michael Olowokandi of Pacific in 1998.
Griffin was the first Oklahoma player ever taken No. 1 overall. Wayman Tisdale, who died in May at age 44, was the second pick by Indiana in 1985.
---
TIGER TALES: It's been good to be a freshman point guard for the Memphis Tigers in the last two NBA drafts.
In 2008, Derrick Rose, who led Memphis to the national championship game as a freshman and the school's second-ever No. 1 ranking, was taken with the No. 1 overall pick by the Chicago Bulls.
This year, the Sacramento Kings made Tyreke Evans, who led the Tigers to the regional semifinals of the NCAA tournament and a No. 3 ranking in the final poll, the fourth pick.
Unlike Rose, who came into the program as a point guard, Evans moved to that position during the season.
"It was crazy. I was playing in the game against Syracuse, and the next day Coach told me I was the point guard. I didn't know what to do," he said. "... I got the ball and it just started from there in practice."
It was the first time Sacramento had a pick in the top five since 1991, when it selected Billy Owens of Syracuse at No. 3.
---
TALKING NEW YORK: Jordan Hill of Arizona was taken with the eighth pick by New York, and he was asked if he's prepared for a media market known for its obsession with sports talk radio.
"I have no problem talking, so I just have to make sure I say the right things," he said. "I'm definitely ready for it."

GREENBURGH, N.Y. -- The New York Knicks are curious whether Ricky Rubio will wind up in Minnesota or Spain next season, curious enough that team president Donnie Walsh was planning to contact Minnesota by the end of the day Friday to begin seeking answers.
Like everyone else around the NBA, the Knicks were taken by surprise Thursday night when the Timberwolves used the fifth and sixth picks of the NBA draft to select a pair of point guards, Rubio and Syracuse's Jonny Flynn.
The suspense deepened after Rubio's father told a Spanish media outlet that Rubio would prefer to return to Spain for at least one season, maybe two, and the Timberwolves found themselves Friday in the uncomfortable position of planning their introductory post-draft news conference without the player they sacrificed Mike Miller and Randy Foye to select.
"There is such a thing as drafting assets. I don't know if that is what he's doing," Walsh said of new Timberwolves general manager David Kahn, who worked under Walsh for several years with the Indiana Pacers as Walsh's assistant GM.
Looking back on the events of the past few days, Walsh said Kahn had indicated to him -- an indication that Walsh initially dismissed -- that he might take two guards with the two picks. So Walsh said it was the biggest surprise of the night, in his opinion, when Minnesota took Flynn with the sixth pick -- giving the Knicks the assurance that they would get one of the two players remaining on the board that they coveted -- Jordan Hill or Stephen Curry.
"It was just a general conversation," Walsh said. "We didn't talk about players, but he said, 'I would take two little guys.' And I thought it was just a comment meaning, 'I'm not going to do this in a prototypical type of way, because I need players.' "
Hill was the player the Knicks took with the No. 8 pick, and New York also selected Florida State guard Toney Douglas with the No. 29 pick they purchased for $3 million from the Los Angeles Lakers.
The best Hill moment from Friday was when he mentioned how he remembered when the Knicks had Patrick Ewing and Charles Oakley and were good. Asked how old he was when he formed those memories, Hill answered "5 or 6."
The best Douglas moment was when he showed off his No. 23 jersey and it was pointed out to him that there might be a free agent out there 12 months from now who would probably want that number for himself.
Walsh insisted that his draft selections would have no bearing on the uncertain futures of restricted free agents David Lee and Nate Robinson, though it was hard to ignore the fact that Hill and Douglas could fill the roles Lee and Robinson occupied the past three
seasons (and, in a perfect world, newly acquired Darko Milicic could spend a season grabbing some of the rebounds Lee specialized in corralling).
The Knicks value Lee more than they do Robinson, but if Lee and/or Robinson are going to take up a large portion of the cap space the Knicks want to have available next summer to make a run at LeBron James/Dwyane Wade/Chris Bosh, both could be expendable.
"I'm always looking at 2010, because I do want to be in the free-agent market in a big way, so I would say it's going to be my job to make sure that happens -- that we don't disrupt that in a major way," Walsh said.
Toward that end, Walsh will continue during the summer to try to find takers for Eddy Curry and Jared Jeffries, two of the four players (Wilson Chandler and Danilo Gallinari are the others, to be joined shortly by Hill and Douglas) under contract through the 2010-11 season.
In hindsight, the Knicks had some huge regrets Friday. Two weeks ago, they were convinced Rubio would be off the board at No. 5, leading them to turn down a deal that would have sent Larry Hughes and Chandler to Washington for Etan Thomas, Mike James, Oleksiy Pecherov and the No. 5 pick (New York would not have surrendered the eighth pick in that trade), and Washington ended up getting Miller and Foye for the pick.
Now, depending on how things shake out between Rubio and the Timberwolves, the NBA rights to the 18-year-old could come onto the market this summer, next season or even in the summer of 2010 or 2011 if he opts to return to DKV Joventut rather than relocate to Minneapolis -- Rubio's astronomical $6 million buyout drops to zero in the summer of 2011.
One of the biggest certainties of the day Friday was that Kahn would be receiving a number of exploratory phone calls inquiring about his plans should Rubio balk at reporting.
And if that is the case, the rights to Rubio could be an asset that increases in value in the weeks and months ahead.
"I haven't spoken to Minnesota, I will," Walsh said. "I don't know what's going on there. He took a lot of point guards, and I want to ask him, 'Why did you do that?' "
Kahn traded two of the four point guards he drafted, sending Ty Lawson to Denver for a future first-round pick and dealing Nick Calathes to Dallas. Kahn also insisted in an ESPN interview Thursday night that he was committed to keeping both Rubio and Flynn and playing them together, but a huge factor in that equation is how easy or difficult it is going to be for the Wolves to play ball with Rubio and his agent, Dan Fegan, who has a history of trying to steer his international clients away from small-market teams.
A rival agent of Fegan's predicted that Minnesota owner Glen Taylor would take a stubborn stance if Rubio tried to force the Wolves' hand.
"He's very thoughtful," Walsh said of Kahn, "and I think you'd be wrong to judge him based on this because he probably has Step 1, Step 2, Step 3, Step 4 [already planned]. And he's going into a situation that needs some change, and he's looking at trying to change it, and he'll do it in various ways -- and the draft is the first step in this process."
Chris Sheridan covers the NBA for ESPN Insider.

ANN ARBOR, Mich. -- Manny Harris says he's skipping his senior season at Michigan to enter the NBA draft.
Harris had a news conference on Monday to announce his decision and was joined by Wolverines coach John Beilein.
The guard from Detroit averaged a career-high 18.1 points per game last season and was a third team All-Big Ten player for a team that fell short of high expectations.
He was an All-Big Ten player as a sophomore when he led the Wolverines to their first NCAA tournament bid since 1998 and was second-team all-conference player as a freshman.
Harris ranks 10th in career scoring at Michigan, joining Jalen Rose and Mike McGee as the only players to score at least 1,600 points in three seasons.
Beilein will also be without departing senior DeShawn Sims next season.

CINCINNATI -- Xavier's Jordan Crawford decided Wednesday that he will explore the possibility of entering the NBA draft while leaving open his option of returning for another season with the Musketeers.
The sophomore guard led the Atlantic 10 in scoring at 20.5 points per game and had a sensational NCAA tournament, helping the Musketeers reach the round of 16 for the third straight season. Xavier lost a 101-96 double-overtime game to Kansas State in the regional semifinal, with Crawford making one clutch shot after another. He averaged 29 points in the tournament.
Crawford hasn't hired an agent. Players have until May 8 to withdraw from consideration and retain their college eligibility.
"I wouldn't be surprised if at the end of the day he went in either direction -- he goes to the NBA or he comes back for his junior season at Xavier," coach Chris Mack said, in a phone interview.
Crawford sat out last season after transferring from Indiana. He wants to get a better idea of where he'd be drafted before deciding whether to hire an agent and leave school.
"I really felt Jordan's goal all along has been to perform well enough to be considered a solid NBA first-round draft pick," Mack said. "At this point, there's not enough information to solidly know where he stands, where he'd be slotted."

Another NBA draft brought another flurry of trade activity Thursday, with the Bulls setting up a deal that will put guard Kirk Hinrich in a Washington Wizards uniform and free up enough cap space to make Chicago a major player in free agency.
The Bulls will move Hinrich and the 17th pick in the draft -- Kevin Seraphin, a 6-foot-9, 20-year-old forward who last played in France -- to the Wizards. The Associated Press reported that Chicago will get a future second-round pick.
Sources with knowledge of the Bulls' plans told ESPN The Magazine's Ric Bucher that moving Hinrich will enable Chicago to pursue two maximum-salary players in the free-agent market, which opens after midnight on July 1.
Trades cannot be consummated officially until July 8, when the salary cap takes effect. The Wizards will have room under the cap to absorb Hinrich's $9 million contract without having to send Chicago anything of similar value.
Seraphin may not be ready to play in the league for a year or two.
The Bulls would not confirm the trade. In a statement released Thursday night, general manager Gar Forman said "we are not at liberty to identify the team that we are talking to or reveal any other specifics of potential trades. Therefore, we will have no comment on this selection until we have completed all trade discussions."
Since the Bulls and Wizards have a good-faith deal for the time being, there remains a chance it could fall apart. But according to one source, the Sacramento Kings are prepared to make a similar deal with the Bulls in the Wizards' stead if that were to happen, Bucher reports.
In other draft-night deals:
 The Los Angeles Clippers acquired the draft rights to guard Eric Bledsoe of Kentucky from Oklahoma City in exchange for a future protected first-round pick.
Bledsoe was originally selected by the Thunder with the 18th pick.
He averaged 11.3 points, 2.9 assists and 3.1 rebounds as a freshman last season. The 6-foot-1, 190-pounder from Birmingham, Ala., gave the Clippers a second player chosen in the first round. They took Al-Farouq Aminu of Wake Forest as the eighth overall pick.
The Clippers took guard Willie Warren of Oklahoma with the 54th overall pick in the second round.
 University of Washington swingman Quincy Pondexter is headed to New Orleans after being taken with the No. 26 pick.
Pondexter was drafted by the Oklahoma City Thunder but will go to the Hornets in a trade that netted New Orleans a pair of first-round picks. The Hornets also get Iowa State forward Craig Brackins, the 21st overall pick.
Oklahoma City gets No. 11 pick Cole Aldrich and veteran forward Morris Peterson.
 The Dallas Mavericks acquired Dominique Jones from Memphis after the Grizzlies took him with the 25th pick.
The Mavericks used cash to pry Jones from Memphis, which had two other first-round picks. Dallas still had the 50th overall pick Thursday night. The amount of money was not immediately disclosed, but likely was around the league's $3 million maximum.
Jones is a 6-foot-5, 216-pound guard who left South Florida after his junior year. He was a first-team All-Big East selection, averaging 21.4 points per game last season.
Team owner Mark Cuban tweeted: "We tried to trade into the top 20 to get (Jones), got lucky to get him 25."
 The Mavs also traded the draft rights to Solomon Alabi, the 50th pick, to the Toronto Raptors for a future second pick and financial considerations.
 The Atlanta Hawks and New Jersey Nets agreed to exchange first-round picks.
The Hawks agreed to trade Texas forward Damion James, taken with Atlanta's No. 24 pick, to New Jersey for one of the Nets' two first-round picks, Xavier guard Jordan Crawford, the 27th pick. The Hawks also receive the No. 31 pick, center Tibor Pleiss of Germany.
The Hawks then traded the rights to Pleiss to Oklahoma City for financial considerations.
The 6-foot-7 James averaged 18 points and 10.3 rebounds as a senior with the Longhorns. Crawford led Xavier with a 20.5 point average.
 The Minnesota Timberwolves selected forward Luke Babbitt from Nevada with the 16th pick and traded him and veteran forward Ryan Gomes to the Portland Trail Blazers for guard/forward Martell Webster.
Babbitt gives the Blazers a shooter to spread the floor for LaMarcus Aldridge and Brandon Roy.
Webster averaged 9.4 points and 3.3 rebounds for the Blazers last year and immediately upgrades the athleticism for Minnesota.
Gomes spent the past three seasons in Minnesota after coming over from Boston in the Kevin Garnett trade. He averaged 10.9 points and 4.6 rebounds last year.
 The Wolves traded the rights to forward Trevor Booker (No. 23) and the rights to center Hamady Ndiaye (No. 56) to the Wizards for the rights to forward Lazar Hayward (No. 30) of Marquette and forward Nemanja Bjelica (No. 35) of Serbia.
 The Indiana Pacers swapped picks with Oklahoma City to get Louisiana Tech's Magnum Rolle in the second round.
Indiana took Florida State's Ryan Reid with the 57th pick, then sent it to Oklahoma City, along with some cash, for Rolle. The 6-foot-11 center averaged 13.9 points and 8.4 rebounds and led the Western Athletic Conference with 2.1 blocks per game.
The 24-year-old transferred from LSU before redshirting, then having two strong seasons for the Bulldogs.
The Pacers also took Fresno State's Paul George with the No. 10 pick and Cincinnati's Lance Stephenson with the 40th pick.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.


"I don't like the look of you. You gotta go."
Those were the last words Jimmy Butler says he remembers his mother saying to him before, according to his recollection, she kicked him to the curb.
He was 13 years old. There was no family to run to. No place to call home. No money in his pocket.
Most kids his age are concerned with school, sports, girls. Butler was just trying to survive. Alone.
Butler pauses as he speaks to me from a hotel room in Cleveland. He sounds unsure about doing this interview. For years, he's kept the story out of the headlines. Several times he tells me he's not sure it's the right time to talk.
He's focusing on NBA draft workouts. He just flew in from New Jersey, where he worked out June 8. Two days later, he tried out with the Cavs. His coach at Marquette, Buzz Williams, always told him to take everything one day at a time.
"That's literally what I live by," Butler said. "One day at a time. The NBA is a goal of mine. But I'm not there yet. I can't lose my focus."
Butler has 13 days until the draft, when he's likely to hear his name called somewhere between the late first round and early second round.
His workouts, by virtually all accounts, have been stellar. He won the MVP award at the Portsmouth Invitational. He impressed scouts with a strong performance at the Chicago pre-draft combine. He's drawn praise from virtually every NBA scout and GM who has worked him out.
But it's been the interview process that has created the most buzz. Representatives from team after team told me he was one of the most impressive young men they've ever met.
"His story," one GM said. "is one of the most remarkable I've seen in all my years of basketball. There were so many times in his life where he was set up to fail. Every time, he overcame just enormous odds. When you talk to him -- and he's hesitant to talk about his life -- you just have this feeling that this kid has greatness in him."
Butler is fine with that interpretation. But there's another one that he fears.
"Please, I know you're going to write something. I'm just asking you, don't write it in a way that makes people feel sorry for me," he said. "I hate that. There's nothing to feel sorry about. I love what happened to me. It made me who I am. I'm grateful for the challenges I've faced. Please, don't make them feel sorry for me."
Pity hasn't gotten Butler anywhere in life. Courage has.
After leaving his Tomball, Texas, home at 13, Butler did his best to keep his head above water. With his father out of his life since he was an infant, he stayed with friends as long as he could. Usually within a few weeks, he was moving on to a new place -- anywhere to lay his head down at night.
Basketball became his life, and Butler showed a lot of promise. The summer before his senior year in high school, he was attracting attention as a potential star in Tomball -- but not from the usual suspects. Division I coaches had yet to make contact, but a ninth-grader named Jordan Leslie was scouting him.
Leslie was from Tomball, too, and was following Butler closely. At the end of a summer league game he approached Butler and challenged him to a 3-point-shooting contest. Butler was taken aback by the brashness of the kid. He agreed to the contest. Leslie was an athlete too, an up-and-coming hoops and football star.
After the game, the two became fast friends. Leslie began inviting Butler to his house to play video games and to stay the night. Butler's life would never be the same.
Leslie's mother, Michelle Lambert, paused at first. She had four kids of her own from her first husband, who had died. Her new husband had brought three children of his own with him. Money was tight. The word around Tomball was that Jimmy was trouble. Her new husband finally told the kids that Jimmy could stay, but only for one or two nights at a time. But each night when Butler would come to stay, a different kid would say, "Tonight's my night to have Jimmy stay." After a few months, the Lamberts gave in, and Michelle told him he could stay for good.
Butler needed a family, and Lambert was offering hers.
But not before she set some ground rules. For the first time in his life he'd have a curfew. He had to attend class and improve his academic performance. He'd have chores around the house. Most importantly, Michelle told him, he had to be a role model.
"I told him my kids looked up to him," Lambert said. "He had to stay out of trouble. Work hard in school. He had to set an example. And you know what? Jimmy did it. Anything I asked him to do, he did it without asking questions."
"They accepted me into their family," Butler said. "And it wasn't because of basketball. She was just very loving. She just did stuff like that. I couldn't believe it."
With some family support for the first time, Butler became a star for the Tomball High School Cougars. As a team captain his senior season, he averaged 19.9 points and 8.7 rebounds per game and was named to the all-district first team.
But it wasn't enough to draw the attention from colleges he had hoped. Scouting services didn't rank him. He didn't play AAU ball, which hurt his chances of being seen. He had an outside shot at playing at Mississippi State, but didn't get a scholarship offer. With nowhere to go again, Butler took the only route he could and enrolled at nearby Tyler Junior College.
Once again, with his back to the wall, Butler not only survived; he thrived. In his first conference game for Tyler, he scored 34 points.
"After that I had a few 30-, 40-point games," he said. "It gave me the confidence that I can play at a high level."
As a freshman, Butler was Tyler's leading scorer and was an honorable mention juco All-American. College coaches around the country began to notice. By April of 2008, Butler had offers from Marquette, Kentucky, Clemson, Mississippi State and Iowa State.
Once again, Lambert became a guiding force in Butler's life.
"He had a lot of offers, but I was impressed by Marquette for academic reasons," she said. "That's a great academic school. I told him he should go there because basketball may not work out long-term. He needed a good education and a degree to fall back on. "
Butler listened and became Williams' first recruit for Marquette. But things didn't start as well as Butler may have hoped. He was used to being the man, but in Milwaukee, he had to sit and watch from the bench as a sophomore. At times, he was frustrated. He'd call Lambert and tell her he wanted to come home.
"Buzz was tough," she said. "He had never had a man tell him no. I did all the time. But often his coaches just enabled him. It was another chance for him to mature."
Said Williams: "I've never been harder on a player than I've been on Jimmy. I was ruthless on him because he didn't know how good he could be. He'd been told his whole life he wasn't good enough. What I was seeing was a guy who could impact our team in so many ways. "
Butler averaged just 5.6 points in 19.6 minutes a game for the Golden Eagles, coming off the bench behind two future NBA players, Wes Matthews and Lazar Hayward. Again, a difficult situation became a positive experience.
"I was tutored by the best," Butler said. "Those guys taught me so much about how to play and how to be a man. I knew that to be successful, I had to be more than a scorer. I had to become a leader. It's not about scoring. It's about doing what my team needs me to do. I wanna be that glue guy, I want to be a guy my team and my coach can count on. That's what I want to be."
By his senior season, Butler had shed the "scorer" label and drew attention from NBA scouts because of his versatility. He could still score -- Butler averaged 15.7 points in 2010-11 -- but he could also rebound, handle the ball and defend multiple positions. He played without ego. He was a winner.
"I saw him at a game versus Providence. He did everything," one NBA scout said. "He guarded Marshon Brooks. He was special. So many guys come into the NBA with role-player talent and think they're a star. I knew this kid could come in and fit, right away, on a good team. That's the appeal."
Scouts were coming to watch him play all year, but Butler was totally unaware. He said he had no idea he was projected as an NBA player until after the college season had ended.
"I was just so focused on our team, on us winning," Butler said. "It's not that it wasn't a dream. Like I said, I was just trying to live one day at a time."
The highlight of Butler's college career came on senior night when Lambert walked him out on the court.
"That night was a complete blur," Lambert said. "I cried the entire time. He had accomplished so much. I was both happy and proud. Everyone doubted him. His coach and principal in high school said he'd never amount to anything. And there he is, with the crowd cheering.
"But I was also sad and scared. Your baby is gone and now he faces the horrible world. Jimmy always talks about what we did for him. I'm not sure he understands what he did for us. He changed our life, too. We are better people for having him in our family."
Said Butler: "We are all attached at the hip. I give her the credit for helping me become who I am. I love her. You would think that she gave me birth. I talk to her every morning. She's very loving. That's my family. That's Michelle Lambert. She is my mom."
So don't feel sorry for Jimmy Butler. He's about to make a career out of the sport he loves. He has a loving family that's given him a place to belong. And any doubt that he had in himself is now long gone. He believes.
"It's taught me that anything is possible," Butler said. "My whole life, people have doubted me. My mom did. People told me in high school I'm too short and not fast enough to play basketball. They didn't know my story. Because if they did, they'd know that anything is possible. Who would've thought that a small-town kid would become a halfway decent player in college and now has a chance to be drafted in the NBA? That's my chip. That's what motivates me. I know I can overcome anything if I just take everything one day [at a] time."
"I hope someone gives him a chance," Lambert said, trying to fight back tears. "No one gave him a chance. I guess we did, and look what happened. He finally had someone to make [proud of him]. If an NBA team gives him a chance, he'll do the world for them. That's what he did for me."
On June 23, Butler will return to the Lambert home in Tomball to watch the NBA draft with his family. There will be no fanfare. No entourage. No fancy suits. Just his mother and seven brothers and sisters. Sharing a meal. Holding hands. Believing.

LEXINGTON, Ky. --  Kentucky freshmen Brandon Knight and Terrence Jones and junior DeAndre Liggins are heading to the NBA. Maybe.
The school announced Wednesday all three players have declared for the NBA draft but will not sign with an agent, clearing the way for them to return to school this fall if they change their minds by May 8.
Jones and Knight are considered mid-to-high first-round picks; Liggins is a defensive stopper who hopes to play his way into the first round after being evaluated by scouts.
The trio helped the Wildcats to their first Final Four appearance in 13 years this spring. Kentucky fell to Connecticut in the national semifinals.
The 6-foot-3 Knight averaged 17.3 points at point guard and proved to be one of the best clutch performers in the country, hitting a pair of game-winning shots during the team's NCAA tournament run.
His driving layup helped Kentucky escape an upset bid by Princeton in the second round and his pull-up jumper with 5 seconds left allowed the Wildcats to knock off top-seeded Ohio State in the regional semifinals.
"Playing in the NBA has always been a dream of mine and this is the next step," Knight said. "All season long Coach has been tutoring me on the fine points of being a point guard, and now I have an opportunity to put my game on display in front of NBA scouts as a result of my hard work."
Knight's 657 points were the most by a Kentucky freshman; he also broke the school's freshman 3-point record by knocking down 87 of them.
Jones averaged 15.7 points, 8.8 rebounds and 1.9 blocks and set a Kentucky freshman record with a 35-point performance in a victory over Auburn in January. He was chosen SEC Newcomer of the Year by The Associated Press.
The 6-8 power forward volunteered to take on a slightly lesser role during the postseason to allow his teammates to get more involved, a move coach John Calipari said was key to the team's postseason success.
Liggins will have the most to prove. He blossomed into one of the country's top defenders, but remains limited offensively. He averaged 8.6 points and 4.0 rebounds while leading the team with 46 steals.
"Growing up in a tough environment in Chicago, it's a pleasure to have an opportunity to do something special," said Liggins, who welcomed his first child during the season. "This is another challenge I'm looking forward to, to have my game evaluated by pro scouts and see how I rank against some of the top players in the world."
Calipari encouraged all three players to test their prospects but added he would "would love the opportunity to continue to coach them again next season."
The coach told reporters last week the unstable NBA labor situation could throw a wrench into his players' plans to leave early.
The collective bargaining agreement between the NBA Players Association and the owners expires June 30. If a new deal can't be reached, there's a chance league owners could lock out the players.
"The lockout really kind of screws everything up because a lot of kids are pulling their names because what if the lockout goes the whole year?" Calipari said. "What kind of mistake did you make?"
The announcement comes one day after freshman guard Doron Lamb said he would return this fall. Lamb pointed to the Final Four loss and another talented incoming freshman class as the main reasons behind his decision.
Lamb's return guarantees at least one high-profile freshman will return, one more than a year ago when Kentucky lost freshmen John Wall, DeMarcus Cousins, Eric Bledsoe and Daniel Orton to the pros after just one season on campus.
Hall of Fame coach and ESPN analyst Bobby Knight criticized Kentucky for promoting the "one-and-done" culture during the weekend, but backed off his statements Tuesday.
Knight said in a brief statement released by ESPN: "My overall point is that 'one-and-dones' are not healthy for college basketball. I should not have made it personal to Kentucky and its players and I apologize."

NEWARK, N.J. -- Kyrie Irving headed to Cleveland as the No. 1 pick minutes after the NBA draft started.
Jimmer Fredette had to wait hours to officially become a member of the Sacramento Kings.
Plenty of other players, from veterans to picks, were on the move Thursday night in a draft that was considered a dud talent-wise but certainly wasn't dull.
There was no chance the Cavs would deal Irving, confident his foot is healthy enough to lead the rebuilding effort that follows LeBron James' departure.
Loudly cheered by family and friends not far from where he starred at St. Patrick's High School in Elizabeth, the Duke point guard showed no signs of the toe injury on his right foot that limited him to 11 games last season as he walked up the stairs to shake hands with commissioner David Stern.
"I didn't have any doubts about going to No. 1. I was looking to the organization to pick who they felt was the right choice," Irving said. "But now to this moment, from being a fan of the NBA draft and now being drafted, it's a special feeling in my heart and knowing that my friends and family were together, it's a memory I'm going to remember for the rest of my life."
A three-team trade that included Charlotte, Milwaukee and Sacramento that had been agreed to earlier in the day wasn't approved until midway through the second round, forcing Fredette to wait about 2 hours for his NBA destination to be determined after he was taken with the No. 10 pick by the Bucks.
"Took a little while waiting back there, but it's a great moment for me and for my family, and for the Sacramento Kings organization," the player of the year from BYU said. "Hopefully their fan base is excited because I'm really excited to get out there and start the season with them and have a great year."
A draft that included a record four international players who didn't play at a U.S. college selected in the lottery soon became dominated by deals, which the NBA was still hustling to approve and announce as the second round wound down.
Stephen Jackson, Corey Maggette and John Salmons were part of the three-way deal, and fellow vets such as Andre Miller, Rudy Fernandez, Raymond Felton and George Hill were involved in other trades.
The deals spiced up what was thought to be a lackluster draft, which was missing its usual buzz with the NBA perhaps a week away from a work stoppage.
Three of the first six players taken were from Europe, capitalizing on the absence of some American college players who might have gone in their spots and made this a stronger draft.
Even Irving has international ties. He was born in Australia while his father, Drederick, played professionally there and said he might be interested in playing for the Australian national team.
After grabbing him with their first No. 1 pick since taking James in 2003, the Cavs used the No. 4 selection on Texas forward Tristan Thompson. They were the first team since the 1983 Houston Rockets with two top-four picks.
The Minnesota Timberwolves, fresh off bringing guard Ricky Rubio of Spain into the fold, took Arizona forward Derrick Williams with the No. 2 pick. The Utah Jazz then took Turkish big man Enes Kanter third with their first of two lottery selections.
The Timberwolves tried all week to trade the second pick in hopes of landing a veteran center or shooting guard to help the youngest team in the league. In the end, they couldn't find an offer they liked enough to pass up on the explosive, 6-foot-8 forward in Williams.
"We're not trading Derrick Williams," Timberwolves president David Kahn told the team's draft party in an interview from the team's war room. "He will be in a Timberwolves uniform next year."
The league's uncertain labor situation hung over the draft, and likely weakened it. Potential top-10 picks such as Jared Sullinger of Ohio State and Harrison Barnes were among those who decided to stay in school, without knowing when their rookie seasons would have started.
Stern, who could lock out his players next week if a deal for a new collective bargaining agreement is not reached, was booed when he came onto the stage at the Prudential Center, which is hosting the draft while its usual home, Madison Square Garden, is undergoing summer work.
New Yorkers made the trip across the river to join the sellout crowd of 8,417, cheering loudly when Kemba Walker and Fredette were taken in the top 10 and booing when the Knicks made Georgia Tech guard Iman Shumpert the No. 17 selection.
The draft was filled with little-known European players. Kanter hasn't played competitively in a year, forced to sit out last season at Kentucky after being ruled ineligible for being paid to play in Turkey. Lithuania's Jonas Valanciunas went fifth to Toronto and Jan Vesely of the Czech Republic was taken sixth by Washington.
"Basketball in my country is not so popular, but after this night, I think -- I hope -- that the basketball will be more popular," Vesely said. "I will do my best to help that."
Bismack Biyombo of Congo went seventh as one of six international players who went in the first round, three short of the record set in 2003. The 18-year-old forward moved to Charlotte as part of a three-way deal.
Biyombo, who has an uncertain contract situation from his professional club in Spain, is an athletic shot-blocker and rebounder with limited offensive skills. He also looked much shorter than his listed 6-9 when he worked out for the Bobcats.
"I was with Michael Jordan (Wednesday) and I had a great practice," Biyombo said. "It was so exciting to have him watch me practice. I'm so excited to meet him again."
Kentucky's Brandon Knight went eighth to Detroit as casual fans finally heard a name they recognized again. He was followed by Walker of national champion Connecticut, who wiped away tears on the draft stage after he was taken by Charlotte, and Fredette.
"It's been like a movie. This whole year has been magical, honestly," Walker, a 6-foot-1 point guard, said. "So many different, crazy things have been happening to me, and you know, I just feel lucky.
"Now that I'm with Charlotte I'm going to try to bring a winning attitude," Walker said. "I'm going to work extremely hard to get better. I'm not 6-3, 6-4, but I have a big heart."
Irving became the third point guard taken first in the last four years, following Derrick Rose in 2008 and John Wall last year. Rose was the NBA's MVP this season, ending James' two-year reign.
Irving insists he's not trying to replace James -- whose highlights were booed when showed on the overhead screen -- in a different manner now.
"I'm looking forward to getting to Cleveland," Irving said. "It's a big sports town and I cannot wait to embrace all of the fans there and the fan support. I can't wait."
Kansas twins Markieff and Marcus Morris went with back-to-back picks to round out the lottery. Phoenix took Markieff at No. 13 and Marcus followed to the Rockets.
Houston international scouting director Arturis Karnisovas said the Rockets liked Marcus Morris' defensive versatility and toughness. He also said Morris will contribute offensively, after shooting 57 percent from the field and topping 20 points in 12 games last season. Morris worked out with the Rockets and impressed with his finishing ability and basketball smarts.
"High basketball IQ," Karnisovas said. "We were looking for a versatile guy who can do many things, and that's what he does."
Indiana took San Diego State's Kawhi Leonard at No. 15 and traded his rights to San Antonio for former IUPUI star George Hill. That started a number of trades at the bottom of the first round, including Boston and New Jersey swapping the Nos. 25 and 27 picks and a Minnesota-Houston deal that sent Jonny Flynn to the Rockets.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

The Indiana Pacers have traded the draft rights to Kawhi Leonard to the San Antonio Spurs for point guard George Hill.
Indiana selected Leonard, a forward out of San Diego State, with the 15th pick in the first round Thursday night. The 6-foot-7 forward averaged 15.5 points and 10.6 rebounds last season. He was a second-team All-American who helped the Aztecs win a school-record 34 games.
Hill averaged 11.6 points and 2.5 assists per game last season, his third with the Spurs.
The Spurs also received the rights to 42nd pick Davis Bertans and 2005 second-round pick Erazem Lorbek from the Pacers.
Chad Ford is the NBA Insider for ESPN.com. Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

Every year I hand out grades just hours after the draft. As a college professor in my day job, the exercise amounts to the equivalent of giving a student a final grade after the first day of class. There's so much we don't know about both the teams and how these players will fit with their respective teams. In other words, these grades are totally subjective and completely unfair. In truth, you can't grade a draft for at least two years.
So why do it? Because it gives us a great opportunity to get an instant reaction on the future of every team in the league. What I write today won't be the definitive word on this draft, but it's a great way to start the conversation.
Here's our take on how every team in the league did Thursday night:

Round 1: John Jenkins (23)
Round 2: Mike Scott (43)
Analysis: With just six players under contract for next season, the Hawks needed depth at every position. While they landed arguably the draft's best shooter and a power forward who put up big numbers in the ACC, I think they passed on players with much more upside than Jenkins.
In other words, they took the player ranked 36th on our Big Board at the 23rd pick. They reached for a need instead of the best player available. While I think both Jenkins and Scott will be solid NBA players, playing it safe gets you only a C.

Round 1: Jared Sullinger (21), Fab Melo (22)
Round 2: Kris Joseph (51)
Analysis: Danny Ainge has shown an uncanny ability to find good players later in the draft. He isn't always right (remember Marcus Banks or J.R. Giddens?), but he's had a number of terrific picks outside the lottery, including Rajon Rondo, Kendrick Perkins, Glen Davis, Tony Allen and Avery Bradley. I think he might have done it again this year.
Sullinger was ranked as a lottery pick on our Big Board the entire year. His upside might not be great, but he has a chance to be a wide body who can score in the paint and rebound.  Melo is a legit shot-blocker and rebounder who, in time, might be a decent center at the next level.
I'm not a big fan of Joseph, but at No. 51, I'm not a big fan of anyone really. The grade can't be an A, however, because as Ainge acknowledged Thursday night, the Celtics aren't sure about Sullinger's back.  If he requires back surgery right away or if his condition is chronic, this could easily be a bust of a pick.




Memphis sophomore guard Will Barton will declare for the NBA draft and hire an agent, a source with direct knowledge told ESPN.com Thursday.
Barton and Memphis coach Josh Pastner met earlier Thursday.
Barton led the Tigers with 18 points a game and eight rebounds.
Pastner was expecting Barton to declare once the season ended, so this doesn't come as a shock.
The NCAA's deadline to declare is April 10. But the NBA early-entry deadline is April 29.

COLUMBUS, Ohio -- After guiding Ohio State to the Final Four, two-time All-American forward Jared Sullinger figured he might as well see what he could do for an NBA team.
The 6-foot-9 sophomore announced on Wednesday he is giving up his final two seasons with the Buckeyes to make himself available for the NBA draft in June. Most projections have him going in the top 10.
"Going to the Final Four with a team that many people said we weren't good enough, weren't strong enough, weren't mentally tough enough, and still being able to get to the Final Four with all the ups and downs we had, I think that was tremendous for this basketball team," Sullinger said, flanked by his parents and coach Thad Matta. "Once we got to the Final Four, we were trying to win it. But unfortunately, we fell short. I feel at peace with the decision I'm making."
The Buckeyes lost to Kansas 64-62 in the national semifinals on Saturday.
Sullinger averaged 17.5 points and 9.2 rebounds a game while shooting 52 percent from the field, 77 percent at the line and 40 percent on 3-pointers while leading the Buckeyes to a 31-8 record and a Final Four berth. He was 63-10 as a starter.
"I've always said he's one of the most intellectual players I've ever coached," Matta said. "He came in that way as a freshman. The thing is that people don't know he studies the game. Not only the college game, but the NBA game. He can tell you a lot about a lot of NBA issues. For him, the timing is definitely right."
Sullinger's father, Satch, was his coach at national power Northland High School in Columbus. He believed the youngest of his three sons, all of whom played Division I basketball, had the ability to play in the NBA. But he also knew he wasn't ready a year ago when Jared was considered a top-five pick.
"The skill set's always been there. But last year, at this time, I wasn't comfortable as a parent with the option of him possibly going to the NBA," Satch Sullinger said. "Jared's had it pretty easy in basketball, he's been relatively injury free. This year I watched the peaks and valleys and I watched him mature. There's only one way to get experience and that's by being inexperienced in a situation. I watched him be immature in certain things and work his way out of it. I saw that consistency start to come back during the end of the season run all the way through the Final Four."
Jared Sullinger came back for his sophomore season with a dramatically different team -- missing three senior starters from a top-ranked team that finished 34-3 -- and with a dramatically different body. He shed 25 pounds and was much more mobile. Rather than get all of his points with his back to the basket on the block, he frequently popped outside to shoot over defenders. He became one of the Buckeyes' top 3-point threats.
He battled through back spasms and a foot injury early in the year. Sullinger was at his best down the stretch, scoring a huge basket in the closing seconds at Northwestern that kept the Buckeyes in the Big Ten title hunt. They then won at Michigan State in the final regular-season game to tie Michigan State and Michigan for the championship.
Deshaun Thomas, a 6-7 sophomore at Ohio State, is also considering the NBA.
Matta said he was still compiling information for Thomas, who is mulling his decision. Sullinger said he had not spoken to his teammate.
Sullinger's brothers, J.J., who played at Ohio State, and Julian, a former Kent State player, were also in attendance at the news conference. Jared said they made his decision easier.
In particular, he said he was thankful that J.J. had gone to Matta several years back, "begging him to recruit the little short fat kid."
Matta joked that he had already offered a scholarship to J.J.'s 5-year-old son.

COLUMBUS, Ohio -- After guiding Ohio State to the Final Four, two-time All-American forward Jared Sullinger figured he might as well see what he could do for an NBA team.
The 6-foot-9 sophomore announced on Wednesday he is giving up his final two seasons with the Buckeyes to make himself available for the NBA draft in June. Most projections have him going in the top 10.
"Going to the Final Four with a team that many people said we weren't good enough, weren't strong enough, weren't mentally tough enough, and still being able to get to the Final Four with all the ups and downs we had, I think that was tremendous for this basketball team," Sullinger said, flanked by his parents and coach Thad Matta. "Once we got to the Final Four, we were trying to win it. But unfortunately, we fell short. I feel at peace with the decision I'm making."
The Buckeyes lost to Kansas 64-62 in the national semifinals on Saturday.
Sullinger averaged 17.5 points and 9.2 rebounds a game while shooting 52 percent from the field, 77 percent at the line and 40 percent on 3-pointers while leading the Buckeyes to a 31-8 record and a Final Four berth. He was 63-10 as a starter.
"I've always said he's one of the most intellectual players I've ever coached," Matta said. "He came in that way as a freshman. The thing is that people don't know he studies the game. Not only the college game, but the NBA game. He can tell you a lot about a lot of NBA issues. For him, the timing is definitely right."
Sullinger's father, Satch, was his coach at national power Northland High School in Columbus. He believed the youngest of his three sons, all of whom played Division I basketball, had the ability to play in the NBA. But he also knew he wasn't ready a year ago when Jared was considered a top-five pick.
"The skill set's always been there. But last year, at this time, I wasn't comfortable as a parent with the option of him possibly going to the NBA," Satch Sullinger said. "Jared's had it pretty easy in basketball, he's been relatively injury free. This year I watched the peaks and valleys and I watched him mature. There's only one way to get experience and that's by being inexperienced in a situation. I watched him be immature in certain things and work his way out of it. I saw that consistency start to come back during the end of the season run all the way through the Final Four."
Jared Sullinger came back for his sophomore season with a dramatically different team -- missing three senior starters from a top-ranked team that finished 34-3 -- and with a dramatically different body. He shed 25 pounds and was much more mobile. Rather than get all of his points with his back to the basket on the block, he frequently popped outside to shoot over defenders. He became one of the Buckeyes' top 3-point threats.
He battled through back spasms and a foot injury early in the year. Sullinger was at his best down the stretch, scoring a huge basket in the closing seconds at Northwestern that kept the Buckeyes in the Big Ten title hunt. They then won at Michigan State in the final regular-season game to tie Michigan State and Michigan for the championship.
Deshaun Thomas, a 6-7 sophomore at Ohio State, is also considering the NBA.
Matta said he was still compiling information for Thomas, who is mulling his decision. Sullinger said he had not spoken to his teammate.
Sullinger's brothers, J.J., who played at Ohio State, and Julian, a former Kent State player, were also in attendance at the news conference. Jared said they made his decision easier.
In particular, he said he was thankful that J.J. had gone to Matta several years back, "begging him to recruit the little short fat kid."
Matta joked that he had already offered a scholarship to J.J.'s 5-year-old son.

COLLEGE STATION, Texas --  Texas A&M junior Khris Middleton has declared for the NBA draft.
Middleton missed 12 games last season with a knee injury. He averaged 13.2 points and five rebounds in a disappointing 14-18 season for the Aggies which broke a streak of six straight NCAA tournament appearances.
The Aggies were preseason favorites to contend with Kansas for the Big 12 title, but a number of injuries, including the one to Middleton contributed to a 4-14 Big 12 record.
The 6-foot-7, 210-pound Middleton started 72 games in three seasons at Texas A&M. His best year came as a sophomore when he averaged 14.4 points and 5.2 rebounds.
Middleton released a statement announcing his intentions and thanking his coaches and family for their support during his time at Texas A&M.

NEW YORK -- After the worst season in NBA history, the Charlotte Bobcats could use a player such as Anthony Davis.
Unfortunately for Michael Jordan's team, it's been a long time since lottery luck shined on the team needing it most.
The Bobcats hope that trend ends Wednesday, when they have the best odds of earning the No. 1 pick in next month's draft.
Charlotte has a 25 percent chance of victory, the reward for its 7-59 record that was the lowest winning percentage (.106) in league history. Davis is the college player of the year after leading Kentucky to the national championship. He is considered the top prize available.
Not since 2004, when the Orlando Magic drafted Dwight Howard, has the team with the worst record won the lottery. Minnesota dropped a spot to second last year, when the Cleveland Cavaliers moved up with a pick owed to them by the Los Angeles Clippers and took Rookie of the Year Kyrie Irving.
The Bobcats, who dropped their final 23 games, appear in much more dire straits than some teams that were able to recover from their lottery letdowns.
"You could make the case that they don't have, at any position, a top-15 player at their position. So they're not in the top half of starters at any place on their roster, which is a tough place to be and that's why a guy like Anthony Davis, if they do draft him, he's going to be expected to turn it around. But there are no quick fixes," former NBA coach and current ESPN analyst Jeff Van Gundy said Tuesday during a conference call.
The Washington Wizards have a 19.9 percent chance of picking first, while Cleveland (13.8 percent) and New Orleans (13.7) have the next-best chances.
The lottery is back in New York for the first time since 1993, moving to the Disney/ABC Times Square Studio from its longtime home in Secaucus, N.J., because the NBA Entertainment facility there no longer houses a television studio.
Maybe that's a good omen for the Nets, who also are going from New Jersey to New York. They now Brooklyn Nets have a 7.5 percent chance of moving up from the No. 6 spot to land the top pick, and if they don't end up in the top three, their selection goes to Portland as part of this season's Gerald Wallace trade.
The Nets are one of the recent teams that came up empty after a dismal season, settling for the No. 3 pick two years ago after a 70-loss season. Though there are occasional complaints about the format, NBA commissioner David Stern has said there's been little call to change it.
Donnie Nelson, the president of basketball operations and general manager of the Dallas Mavericks, believes that's a good thing.
"I think the system works pretty well," Nelson said. "The problem you run into if you do away with it is there's the potential for teams tanking games at the end of the season and that can get kind of ugly. That's not a path you want to go down."
Van Gundy, like many, thinks the lottery is a way to police teams from trying to lose in hopes of securing the No. 1 pick and even argued for dropping the weighted system that gives the Bobcats 250 out of 1,000 chances, taking away even more incentive to lose. Though he said the team played hard, he used the word "tanking" Tuesday, essentially accusing Jordan's organization of not trying to win this season.
"They have, I think, a very poor roster by design," he said. "I think they are trying to do what most people in the front office would agree with how they're doing it. Get bad to try to get good. People have done it before. San Antonio Spurs, I think it was 18 wins when David Robinson was hurt and they got Tim Duncan (in 1997) and for 15 years they've been just phenomenal. So what they're doing I think goes to what most people in the NBA would do, but it's by design."
The Cavaliers are hoping lightning strikes twice.
Last year, owner Dan Gilbert's 15-year-old son, Nick, proved to be a lucky charm when he represented the team at the drawing in New Jersey. The young Gilbert, wearing hipster glasses and a bow tie, endeared himself to Cleveland fans after the team won the lottery by looking into the camera and saying, "What's not to like?" a catchphrase that helped the city get over the loss of LeBron James.
The Cavs are sending Nick again along with the same traveling party that brought the team luck a year ago.
His dad recently joked that his son better bring home a winner.
"If he doesn't get the first pick, he will be grounded all summer," Gilbert joked. "This is a very important draft for us. We hope to add some key pieces this summer."
Irving also will attend the lottery along with the Gilberts, former Browns quarterback Bernie Kosar and current Browns players Josh Cribbs and Joe Haden.
General manager Rich Cho will be on stage for the Bobcats, whose odds are best (35.8 percent) of picking fourth. The lottery sets the top three picks, with the remainder of the 14 participants drafting in inverse order of their records.
The draft is June 28 in Newark, N.J.

CHARLOTTE, N.C. --  New Charlotte coach Mike Dunlap says the idea of trading down from the No. 2 spot in the NBA draft to acquire extra picks "makes a lot of sense" for a young team like the Bobcats.
After finishing 7-59 and with the worst winning percentage (.106) in NBA history, the Bobcats have a variety of holes to fill this offseason.
Dunlap recognizes that.
That's one of the reasons he said the Bobcats are taking a "hybrid thinking" approach to Thursday night's draft, which means evaluating the talent available at No. 2 while simultaneously looking into the feasibility of moving down and picking up an additional first-round draft pick.
He said the option of trading down "is on the board."
"I think anybody in our situation would have that on the board," Dunlap said. "(Our) people are very smart up top. So options and thinking of your variables is a very smart thing to do."
Dunlap said the decision on whether to remain at No. 2 or move down will be up to his bosses -- general manager Rich Cho and director of basketball operations Rod Higgins. As of right now they're not talking about the draft, though both are expected to address the media at a pre-draft press conference Wednesday.
The New Orleans Hornets won the NBA lottery and have the No 1 pick.
It would be a major surprise if they don't take Kentucky's Anthony Davis, considered by many a franchise-type player.
The No. 2 pick is a bit more complicated.
There's no consensus pick for that spot with opinions varying on whether Kansas forward Thomas Robinson, Florida guard Bradley Beal, Kentucky swingman Michael Kidd-Gilchrist or North Carolina forward Harrison Barnes might be the next best player available.
Dunlap says the front office has "definitely reduced" the number of candidates in consideration for the No. 2 pick should the team stand pat.
"That's their job," Dunlap said of Cho and Higgins. "And I'm a resource. But those guys have done a wonderful job all year long of evaluation, so I think they have a clear idea of scenarios. There are many variables, but they have it down."
One intriguing potential trade partner for the Bobcats could be the Cleveland Cavaliers, who own picks No. 4 and 24.
If the Bobcats trade down it might allow them to acquire an outside shooter.
That's what Dunlap considers the team's most pressing need.
"The ability to make the three is important because it allows you to play inside the 3-point line," Dunlap said. "What happens is a defense collapses and it gets crowded in there. I would say that is safe to say that we need to do that. And we need to do a better job with our spacing, too. But as far as the roster goes it's always nice to have guys who can shoot a basketball."
The Bobcats worked out four players on Monday including Vanderbilt's John Jenkins, who fits the bill as an outside shooter after shooting 48.3 percent from beyond the arc last season.
Although he's not considered a top 10 pick, he could be an option for the Bobcats with their second round pick (31st overall). The others that worked out Monday in Charlotte were Missouri's Kim English, Virginia Tech's Dorenzo Hudson and High Point's Nick Barbour.
"I think it's a good draft and I also think there are a lot of guys out there that will be in that top 20 who have won a lot of basketball games," Dunlap said. "They kind of know the expectations. I also think you'll see a lot of wheeling and dealing with teams moving down or up."
While Dunlap could have some input on draft day decisions, his primary focus has been on developing the players he has on the roster.
He's dove head-first into the challenge.
Known as a no-nonsense coach, Dunlap spent more than two hours Monday working with a handful of Bobcats players including Byron Mullens and last year's rookie lottery picks Kemba Walker and Bismack Biyombo. The practice was fast-paced and intense in nature.
"Their work ethic and their willingness to learn has been good," he said. "I hope so, it's the honeymoon and there's nothing at stake right now."
Dunlap, who previously worked as an assistant at St. John's, has also been working on assembling an assistant coaching staff, although nothing is imminent.
"We're going to take our time," Dunlap said. "As they say in the business, hire slow, fire fast. I know that one."

The Dallas Mavericks turned their first-round pick
in the NBA draft into three selections Thursday night.      After using the 17th overall pick to get 7-foot North Carolina
center Tyler Zeller, the Mavericks traded his draft rights along
with guard Kelenna Azubuike to Cleveland for three selections.      Before the deal was formally approved by the NBA, the Cavaliers
made three selections for the Mavericks. Cleveland took Oregon State guard Jared Cunningham with the 24th overall pick, then made the
Nos. 33 and 34 picks in the second round that were part of the
draft-night deal.      Dallas also got the draft rights to Bernard James, a 27-year-old
center from Florida State selected 33rd overall, and Marquette
forward Jae Crowder, the Big East Player of the Year taken with the
next pick.      Mavericks general manager Donnie Nelson had talked about getting
an impact player at No. 17, their highest pick since 2000. They
instead got three players in a span of 11 picks."Overall, it was a great draft," owner Mark Cuban said. "If we would have just gotten the one guy we liked, but we got three guys that we think are going to come in and play for us."      Cunningham, an early NBA draft entry, led the Pac 12 in steals
in his junior and sophomore seasons. As a junior for the Beavers
last season, he averaged 17.9 points, second in the
Pac 12. Cunningham also had 91 steals, matching Gary Payton's mark
as a junior, and averaged 3.8 rebounds.      The 6-foot-10 James joined the Air Force in 2003 and did three
tours in the Middle East. After leaving the Air Force, he went to
Tallahassee Community College, then played the past two years with
Florida State, averaging 10.8 points, 8.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocked
shots a game last season.      Crowder averaged 17.5 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 steals
per game. The 6-6 Crowder scored 20 points or more 13 times,
and was in double figures in 31 of 35 games last season.      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

The Dallas Mavericks turned their first-round pick
in the NBA draft into three selections Thursday night.
      After using the 17th overall pick to get 7-foot North Carolina
center Tyler Zeller, the Mavericks traded his draft rights along
with guard Kelenna Azubuike to Cleveland for three selections.      Before the deal was formally approved by the NBA, the Cavaliers
made three selections for the Mavericks. Cleveland took Oregon State guard Jared Cunningham with the 24th overall pick, then made the
Nos. 33 and 34 picks in the second round that were part of the
draft-night deal.      Dallas also got the draft rights to Bernard James, a 27-year-old
center from Florida State selected 33rd overall, and Marquette
forward Jae Crowder, the Big East Player of the Year taken with the
next pick.      Mavericks general manager Donnie Nelson had talked about getting
an impact player at No. 17, their highest pick since 2000. They
instead got three players in a span of 11 picks."Overall, it was a great draft," owner Mark Cuban said. "If we would have just gotten the one guy we liked, but we got three guys that we think are going to come in and play for us."      Cunningham, an early NBA draft entry, led the Pac 12 in steals
in his junior and sophomore seasons. As a junior for the Beavers
last season, he averaged 17.9 points, second in the
Pac 12. Cunningham also had 91 steals, matching Gary Payton's mark
as a junior, and averaged 3.8 rebounds.      The 6-foot-10 James joined the Air Force in 2003 and did three
tours in the Middle East. After leaving the Air Force, he went to
Tallahassee Community College, then played the past two years with
Florida State, averaging 10.8 points, 8.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocked
shots a game last season.      Crowder averaged 17.5 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 steals
per game. The 6-6 Crowder scored 20 points or more 13 times,
and was in double figures in 31 of 35 games last season.      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      After using the 17th overall pick to get 7-foot North Carolina
center Tyler Zeller, the Mavericks traded his draft rights along
with guard Kelenna Azubuike to Cleveland for three selections.
      Before the deal was formally approved by the NBA, the Cavaliers
made three selections for the Mavericks. Cleveland took Oregon State guard Jared Cunningham with the 24th overall pick, then made the
Nos. 33 and 34 picks in the second round that were part of the
draft-night deal.      Dallas also got the draft rights to Bernard James, a 27-year-old
center from Florida State selected 33rd overall, and Marquette
forward Jae Crowder, the Big East Player of the Year taken with the
next pick.      Mavericks general manager Donnie Nelson had talked about getting
an impact player at No. 17, their highest pick since 2000. They
instead got three players in a span of 11 picks."Overall, it was a great draft," owner Mark Cuban said. "If we would have just gotten the one guy we liked, but we got three guys that we think are going to come in and play for us."      Cunningham, an early NBA draft entry, led the Pac 12 in steals
in his junior and sophomore seasons. As a junior for the Beavers
last season, he averaged 17.9 points, second in the
Pac 12. Cunningham also had 91 steals, matching Gary Payton's mark
as a junior, and averaged 3.8 rebounds.      The 6-foot-10 James joined the Air Force in 2003 and did three
tours in the Middle East. After leaving the Air Force, he went to
Tallahassee Community College, then played the past two years with
Florida State, averaging 10.8 points, 8.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocked
shots a game last season.      Crowder averaged 17.5 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 steals
per game. The 6-6 Crowder scored 20 points or more 13 times,
and was in double figures in 31 of 35 games last season.      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      Before the deal was formally approved by the NBA, the Cavaliers
made three selections for the Mavericks. Cleveland took Oregon State guard Jared Cunningham with the 24th overall pick, then made the
Nos. 33 and 34 picks in the second round that were part of the
draft-night deal.
      Dallas also got the draft rights to Bernard James, a 27-year-old
center from Florida State selected 33rd overall, and Marquette
forward Jae Crowder, the Big East Player of the Year taken with the
next pick.      Mavericks general manager Donnie Nelson had talked about getting
an impact player at No. 17, their highest pick since 2000. They
instead got three players in a span of 11 picks."Overall, it was a great draft," owner Mark Cuban said. "If we would have just gotten the one guy we liked, but we got three guys that we think are going to come in and play for us."      Cunningham, an early NBA draft entry, led the Pac 12 in steals
in his junior and sophomore seasons. As a junior for the Beavers
last season, he averaged 17.9 points, second in the
Pac 12. Cunningham also had 91 steals, matching Gary Payton's mark
as a junior, and averaged 3.8 rebounds.      The 6-foot-10 James joined the Air Force in 2003 and did three
tours in the Middle East. After leaving the Air Force, he went to
Tallahassee Community College, then played the past two years with
Florida State, averaging 10.8 points, 8.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocked
shots a game last season.      Crowder averaged 17.5 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 steals
per game. The 6-6 Crowder scored 20 points or more 13 times,
and was in double figures in 31 of 35 games last season.      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      Dallas also got the draft rights to Bernard James, a 27-year-old
center from Florida State selected 33rd overall, and Marquette
forward Jae Crowder, the Big East Player of the Year taken with the
next pick.
      Mavericks general manager Donnie Nelson had talked about getting
an impact player at No. 17, their highest pick since 2000. They
instead got three players in a span of 11 picks."Overall, it was a great draft," owner Mark Cuban said. "If we would have just gotten the one guy we liked, but we got three guys that we think are going to come in and play for us."      Cunningham, an early NBA draft entry, led the Pac 12 in steals
in his junior and sophomore seasons. As a junior for the Beavers
last season, he averaged 17.9 points, second in the
Pac 12. Cunningham also had 91 steals, matching Gary Payton's mark
as a junior, and averaged 3.8 rebounds.      The 6-foot-10 James joined the Air Force in 2003 and did three
tours in the Middle East. After leaving the Air Force, he went to
Tallahassee Community College, then played the past two years with
Florida State, averaging 10.8 points, 8.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocked
shots a game last season.      Crowder averaged 17.5 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 steals
per game. The 6-6 Crowder scored 20 points or more 13 times,
and was in double figures in 31 of 35 games last season.      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      Mavericks general manager Donnie Nelson had talked about getting
an impact player at No. 17, their highest pick since 2000. They
instead got three players in a span of 11 picks.
"Overall, it was a great draft," owner Mark Cuban said. "If we would have just gotten the one guy we liked, but we got three guys that we think are going to come in and play for us."      Cunningham, an early NBA draft entry, led the Pac 12 in steals
in his junior and sophomore seasons. As a junior for the Beavers
last season, he averaged 17.9 points, second in the
Pac 12. Cunningham also had 91 steals, matching Gary Payton's mark
as a junior, and averaged 3.8 rebounds.      The 6-foot-10 James joined the Air Force in 2003 and did three
tours in the Middle East. After leaving the Air Force, he went to
Tallahassee Community College, then played the past two years with
Florida State, averaging 10.8 points, 8.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocked
shots a game last season.      Crowder averaged 17.5 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 steals
per game. The 6-6 Crowder scored 20 points or more 13 times,
and was in double figures in 31 of 35 games last season.      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

"Overall, it was a great draft," owner Mark Cuban said. "If we would have just gotten the one guy we liked, but we got three guys that we think are going to come in and play for us."
      Cunningham, an early NBA draft entry, led the Pac 12 in steals
in his junior and sophomore seasons. As a junior for the Beavers
last season, he averaged 17.9 points, second in the
Pac 12. Cunningham also had 91 steals, matching Gary Payton's mark
as a junior, and averaged 3.8 rebounds.      The 6-foot-10 James joined the Air Force in 2003 and did three
tours in the Middle East. After leaving the Air Force, he went to
Tallahassee Community College, then played the past two years with
Florida State, averaging 10.8 points, 8.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocked
shots a game last season.      Crowder averaged 17.5 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 steals
per game. The 6-6 Crowder scored 20 points or more 13 times,
and was in double figures in 31 of 35 games last season.      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      Cunningham, an early NBA draft entry, led the Pac 12 in steals
in his junior and sophomore seasons. As a junior for the Beavers
last season, he averaged 17.9 points, second in the
Pac 12. Cunningham also had 91 steals, matching Gary Payton's mark
as a junior, and averaged 3.8 rebounds.
      The 6-foot-10 James joined the Air Force in 2003 and did three
tours in the Middle East. After leaving the Air Force, he went to
Tallahassee Community College, then played the past two years with
Florida State, averaging 10.8 points, 8.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocked
shots a game last season.      Crowder averaged 17.5 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 steals
per game. The 6-6 Crowder scored 20 points or more 13 times,
and was in double figures in 31 of 35 games last season.      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      The 6-foot-10 James joined the Air Force in 2003 and did three
tours in the Middle East. After leaving the Air Force, he went to
Tallahassee Community College, then played the past two years with
Florida State, averaging 10.8 points, 8.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocked
shots a game last season.
      Crowder averaged 17.5 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 steals
per game. The 6-6 Crowder scored 20 points or more 13 times,
and was in double figures in 31 of 35 games last season.      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      Crowder averaged 17.5 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 steals
per game. The 6-6 Crowder scored 20 points or more 13 times,
and was in double figures in 31 of 35 games last season.
      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      The Mavericks had the oldest team in the NBA last season, and were swept in the first round of the playoffs by Oklahoma City
a year after winning their only NBA championship. They could
undergo significant roster changes around perennial All-Star
forward Dirk Nowitzki.
Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

Earlier, Cleveland took guard Dion Waiters with the fourth pick.

    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

    The  NBA champion Miami Heat grabbed Mississippi State
forward Arnett Moultrie with the No. 27 pick, then quickly
traded him to Philadelphia for a future first-round pick and the
rights to the 76ers' second-round selection,
7-foot forward Justin Hamilton of LSU at No. 45.
The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

The Heat's future first-rounder is lottery-protected for the next three drafts, a source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford. If the Heat do not get the pick by the 2015 draft, they will receive a second-round selection that year and a second-rounder in 2016.
      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      By trading away the first-round selection, the Heat did not have
to commit to any guaranteed contract, potentially saving about $1
million in payroll and an equal amount in salary tax for each of
the next two seasons.
      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      But Heat president Pat Riley said the decision to make a trade
had "nothing to do with luxury tax."
      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      "The players that we had on the board were not there at the
time and we felt we had a great option with Philly," Riley said.
      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

      "We just felt that with our roster, roster spots are very
valuable," Riley added. "That was the reason why we deferred the
pick."
Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

Philadelphia already took St. John's forward Maurice Harkless with the 15th pick. Now the Sixers got the big man many figured they would take earlier.
Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

Moultrie averaged 16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds last season for Mississippi State. The 6-11 Moultrie spent his first two college seasons at Texas-El Paso, where he averaged 9.3 points in 70 games.
Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

Moultrie entered the 2010 NBA draft before withdrawing his name from consideration. He was second in the SEC in scoring last season and led the league in rebounding -- coming in ahead of No. 1 pick Anthony Davis of Kentucky in that department.
The Sacramento Kings selected UC Santa Barbara guard Orlando Johnson with the 36th pick and then sent him to the Indiana Pacers for cash considerations.
The Brooklyn Nets acquired the draft rights to Tyshawn Taylor after he was selected 41st overall by Portland in exchange for cash considerations.
Taylor, 22, is a 6-3 guard out of Kansas who averaged 17.3 points and 4.8 assists per game in his senior season.
Taylor is a native of Hoboken, N.J., who played high school basketball at St. Anthony.
The 76ers sold their 54th pick to Brooklyn. Picking for the Nets, the Sixers drafted Tornike Shengelia, a 6-9, 220-pound 20-year-old forward from Tbilisi, Georgia.
The Los Angeles Lakers bought the 55th pick from Dallas. Picking for the Lakers, the Mavericks selected Darius Johnson-Odom out of Marquette.
Information from The Associated Press and ESPNNewYork.com's Kieran Darcy was used in this report.

NEWARK, N.J. -- Best in the country and Nos. 1 and 2 in the NBA draft. The celebration goes on for Kentucky's kids.
The Wildcats became the first school to have the top two picks and tied a record with six players taken Thursday night.
After the New Orleans Hornets made the long-expected selection of forward Anthony Davis with the first pick, Charlotte followed by taking fellow freshman Michael Kidd-Gilchrist.
"It's crazy," Davis said. "Michael is a great player. We have two down and four more to go. Hopefully, all of them will go in the first round."
They didn't, the only disappointment for the Wildcats. They settled for four in the first round and a tie with North Carolina, which won the race to four picks -- all in the top 17 selections.
Harrison Barnes (No. 7, Golden State), Kendall Marshall (No. 13, Phoenix), John Henson (No. 14, Milwaukee) and Tyler Zeller (No. 17, Dallas) all went between Kidd-Gilchrist and the next Kentucky player, Terrence Jones at No. 18 to Houston.
Zeller's rights were later traded to Cleveland for a package that included No. 24 pick Jared Cunningham of Oregon State.
Otherwise, it was the Wildcats' night, starting with a hug between Davis and Kidd-Gilchrist after the first selection.
"My arm was shaking and my hands were sweaty. Got up and hugged Michael, my best friend, wanted to hug him for a minute," Davis said. "When my name got called, wanted to make sure he stayed close."
He did -- following Davis as the next player to climb onto the stage and shake commissioner David Stern's hand.
Kentucky got its fourth first-round pick at No. 29 with Marquis Teague, another freshman, who is headed to Chicago as a possible replacement for the injured Derrick Rose. Doron Lamb went 42nd to Milwaukee and Darius Miller was 46th to New Orleans.
Only UNLV in 1977 had six players drafted -- but none in the first round.
John Calipari has been criticized for recruiting "one-and-done" players -- they stay the required one year and leave -- but he looked thrilled hugging his two stars at the start of the night.
It's been a long time since a school made such an impact at the top of the draft.
UCLA had the Nos. 1 and 3 picks in 1969, when Milwaukee took Kareem Abdul-Jabbar -- then Lew Alcindor -- and Lucius Allen went third to the Seattle SuperSonics.
Davis will begin his pro career in the same city where he ended it with a national title. College basketball's player of the year as a freshman was the Most Outstanding Player of the Final Four despite shooting just 1 of 10 from the field in the championship game, grabbing 16 rebounds and blocking six shots in the victory over Kansas.
Davis slipped on a blue and purple Hornets hat above a conservative gray suit that took no attention away from basketball's most famous eyebrow. Davis even attempted to capitalize on the attention his unibrow gets, trademarking "Fear The Brow" and "Raise The Brow" earlier this month.
On the floor, Davis has the agility of a guard -- and he was one only a few years ago.
The 6-foot-10 Davis averaged 14.2 points, 10.4 rebounds and 4.7 blocks, becoming a dominant defender after growing 7 inches from the start of his junior year of high school.
A season after the Hornets traded longtime star Chris Paul, Davis is ready to be their centerpiece, since playing for the Wildcats means he's already accustomed to plenty of attention.
"Like I said, at Kentucky we had it all the time, especially the six who played, we had the spotlight all the time," Davis said. "I think it really prepared me."
The Hornets drafted Duke guard Austin Rivers with the 10th overall pick, giving New Orleans a young inside-outside duo to pair with guard Eric Gordon.
Rivers hugged his father, Boston coach Doc Rivers, who came to be with his family instead of with the Celtics, who owned two later first-round picks.
Charlotte, coming off a 7-59 season and the worst winning percentage in NBA history, had been open to moving the No. 2 pick if it found the right deal. Instead, Michael Jordan's team went with Kidd-Gilchrist, whose selection by the Bobcats was loudly cheered, a sharp contrast from the boos Stern received when coming out to announce the picks.
The new Charlotte swingman played in high school at nearby St. Patrick High School in Elizabeth, N.J., and fans chanted "MKG! MKG!" as he walked off the stage. Though he and Davis talked before the draft, they didn't discuss the history the Wildcats were about to make.
"No. I was shocked at first," Kidd-Gilchrist said. "I was shocked. But no, we didn't. We didn't at all."
Florida's Bradley Beal went third to Washington, making it three SEC freshman in the first three picks. Cleveland followed with the surprisingly early pick of Syracuse sixth man Dion Waiters at No. 4.
Thomas Robinson of Kansas, who hoped to go second, fell to Sacramento at No. 5. Portland took Weber State's Damian Lillard at No. 6 with its first of two lottery picks, and Barnes was taken seventh by Golden State.
After Washington's Terrence Ross went to Toronto and Connecticut's Andre Drummond to Detroit.
Davis was the only clear-cut pick entering the draft, and there were some early surprises. Players such as Waiters and Ross went higher than expected, while Robinson dropped to the Kings.
"I really didn't know where I was going to end up at, but it is a bit of a surprise," he said, tearing up when talking about his difficult journey that included the deaths of multiple family members in college. "I didn't work out for Sacramento at all, I probably talked to them about once. But I'm here, so I'm meant to be here."
Houston took Jeremy Lamb of Connecticut at No. 12 with its first of three top-20 picks. But the Rockets, who also had the Nos. 16 and 18 picks, were hoping not to use all of them, instead packaging them for an established player after their pursuit of the Lakers' Pau Gasol fell through last year.
The Rockets tabbed Iowa State's Royce White at No. 16 and Terrence Jones two picks later.
Jared Sullinger, once considered a top-10 pick, ended up in a draft free-fall over concerns with his back but was finally taken at No. 21 by Boston. The Celtics followed with Fab Melo of Syracuse, giving them two potential replacements if Kevin Garnett doesn't return.
The NBA champion Miami Heat took forward Arnett Moultrie of Mississippi State at No. 27 with their first-round pick, but traded his rights to Philadelphia for the rights to LSU center Justin Hamilton and a future first-round pick.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

RALEIGH, N.C. --  North Carolina State's Lorenzo Brown said Thursday he's ready for the NBA.
The junior point guard held a news conference with coach Mark Gottfried to announce his plans to skip his final season with the Wolfpack.
"I just kind of figured it was my time to leave and just step up to something new," Brown said.
Gottfried says he spoke with representatives of about 15 to 20 NBA teams and believes that Brown can be a first-round pick. He pointed out that Brown has only played the point for the past two years after bouncing between the point and the off-guard positions during his freshman year under Sidney Lowe.
"I think guys like the fact that they would potentially get a player that's kind of on the front end of all the growth that may happen for him," Gottfried said. "I know there's a lot of teams that like him a lot. ... I think he's going to have a good future."
A second-team all-Atlantic Coast Conference pick by both the media and the coaches, the 6-foot-5 Brown averaged 12.4 points and a league-best 7.2 assists per game. Brown's value was most apparent with his ability to push the ball in transition, though he was also a capable defender who frustrated league player of the year Erick Green throughout N.C. State's ACC tournament win against Virginia Tech.
His departure wasn't a huge surprise considering Brown and junior C.J. Leslie were both mentioned as likely candidates to jump to the NBA all season. The coaching staff had prepared for Brown's departure by signing McDonald's All-America point guard Anthony "Cat" Barber for next year and also returns rising sophomore Tyler Lewis, a McDonald's All-American in 2012 who signed with Lowe.
"We've planned," Gottfried said of Brown's departure, "yet at the same time you know that we'll miss a player of his magnitude."
N.C. State already knew it was losing seniors Richard Howell and Scott Wood before Brown's announcement, and Leslie could be the fourth starter to depart from a team that fell far short of preseason expectations and lost its NCAA tournament opener against Temple.
Gottfried said he expected Leslie would make a decision "in the next week or so."
N.C. State entered the year as the ACC favorite for the first time since the 1974-75 season, while the No. 6 preseason ranking was the program's highest in 29 years.
Though N.C. State started 3-0 in league play, the Wolfpack struggled with inconsistency all season, particularly on the defensive end. Things got tougher when Brown suffered a sprained left ankle in the first half of a loss at Virginia on Jan. 29, sidelining him for the rest of that game followed by the next two. N.C. State lost all three to essentially end its ACC regular-season title hopes.
The Wolfpack fell to top-seeded Miami in the ACC semifinals, failing to win the program's first tournament title since 1987.
N.C. State ended up with a No. 8 seed in the NCAA tournament to set up last week's season-ending loss, though it still matched last year's 24-win total -- the best for the program since 1988.

RALEIGH, N.C. --  North Carolina State's C.J. Leslie is joining teammate Lorenzo Brown by skipping his final season and entering the NBA draft.
"It's one of those things where you just know it's just time, it's time to move on," Leslie said Monday during a news conference at the team's practice facility. "That's what I feel like in my heart. My family, they feel the same way I do. It was just one of those things where we felt like it was time to move on."
The 6-foot-9 forward was the preseason Atlantic Coast Conference player of the year. He averaged a team-high 15 points to go with 7.4 rebounds while shooting nearly 52 percent from the floor. He was a third-team all-ACC pick by both the media and the coaches after ranking in the top 10 in the league in scoring, rebounding and shooting percentage.
Leslie, who arrived under former coach Sidney Lowe, started 85 of his 99 career games and led the team in scoring as a sophomore as well.
His decision comes four days after Brown, a point guard, announced his decision, though neither move was a surprise.
Leslie flirted with entering the draft last year after helping the Wolfpack make a surprise run to the NCAA round of 16 after missing the NCAAs for five straight seasons. This time, NC State was the ACC favorite for the first time since the 1974-75 season and entered the year with a No. 6 national ranking, but fell in the ACC tournament semifinals then lost to Temple in its NCAA tournament opener.
Coach Mark Gottfried said he believes there's a "strong likelihood" that Leslie will be a first-round draft pick. He is ranked 57th overall and 10th at power forward among NBA draft prospects by ESPN.com's Chad Ford.
"I think he's confident right now that this is the right time for him personally and I think he's going to do very well," Gottfried said. "I'm sad he's leaving the program, but I'm excited. I think this is where his heart is and I think he's going to be very, very good."
NC State will lose all five starters from the group that started the opener in November, including seniors Richard Howell and Scott Wood, as well as freshman Rodney Purvis -- who announced Monday afternoon he planned to transfer. The Wolfpack should get back rising sophomores T.J. Warren and Tyler Lewis, then add a three-man recruiting class led by McDonald's All-America point guard Anthony "Cat" Barber.
The Wolfpack will also add LSU transfer Ralston Turner to the backcourt.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. --  Indiana's Cody Zeller turned down one chance to play in the NBA. He couldn't say no twice.
The 7-foot sophomore center who returned to school last fall for one more shot at a national championship announced Wednesday he is leaving college early to enter the NBA draft. The reason was simple.
"The leaders that I came in looking up to and copying their work ethic were Vic, Christian (Watford), Jordan (Hulls), Derek (Elston), a lot of those older guys that are leaving now," Zeller said explaining the difference between last year's decision and this year's. "IU will have a great year next year, but the guys I was closest to are graduating."
The decision was first announced on the website of his family's business shortly before the news conference at Assembly Hall. Zeller said he was eager to start working with the Christian basketball camps being run by his parents and two older brothers, something the youngest Zeller said NCAA rules barred him from participating even though the organization is considered a nonprofit.
Zeller's announcement came 24 hours after 6-foot-5 junior Victor Oladipo announced he was turning pro, too, in the exact same spot -- at midcourt inside Assembly Hall with the school's five national championship banners clearly visible in the background.
These Hoosiers wanted to add a sixth banner but that quest fell short when East Regional champion Syracuse beat the Hoosiers in the regional semifinals. Yet when Zeller walked off the court in Washington that night, he was already pretty sure he had played his last college game.
"After a while, you just kind of know," he said when asked about the timing of his decision. "Barring injury, I kind of knew it might be my last year, so I enjoyed every minute of it. There was a sense of accomplishment playing my last game at Assembly Hall, playing in my last (NCAA) tournament."
The early departures mean Indiana will have a very different look from the teams that won 56 games and reached the NCAA tournament's regional semifinals each of the last two seasons.
Coach Tom Crean must replace four 1,000-point scorers -- Hulls and Watford, both seniors, Oladipo and now Zeller. They were Indiana's top four scorers last season and accounted for nearly two-thirds of the Hoosiers' points.
The cornerstone, though, was Zeller, the highly-touted high school player who turned down North Carolina and Butler to lay the groundwork in Crean's grand rebuilding project.
Zeller lived up to the billing in almost every possible way. In the three years before Zeller's arrival, Crean's teams won just 28 games and didn't make a postseason appearance. With Zeller, the Hoosiers re-emerged as a Top 25 program, a Big Ten title contender and a player on the national stage. He finished with 1,157 career points and leaves as the Hoosiers' career leader in field goal percentage (59.7 percent).
But the impact he made went far deeper than any numbers.
"What Cody means to Indiana, it's much like Victor, it's hard to describe it and it's hard to put it into words, but what Cody has done has helped raise the level of every person in this program -- every coach, every player, every manager and that's not an easy feat," Crean said. "He's really come in here and left his mark on this program and it's one that will stand for a very, very long time."
Zeller is set to  become the third Zeller boy to play in the NBA. His oldest brother, Luke, spent part of this season with the Phoenix Suns and his other brother, Tyler, is becoming a key cog for the Cleveland Cavaliers, who just happened to be playing in Indianapolis on Tuesday night.
Cody Zeller could have been a lottery pick last season but returned to Bloomington heavier and stronger. All he did was lead the nation's preseason No. 1 team in scoring (16.5 points), rebounding (8.1) and blocks (45) while shooting 56.2 percent from the field and 75.7 percent from the free throw line. Zeller even finished second on the team in steals (37).
But Zeller also found out how rugged life can be in the Big Ten when you're the target. Only seven Division I players attempted more free throws during the regular season than Zeller's 241 in 2012-13, and he often wound up crashing hard to the floor.
With scouts still projecting him as a lottery pick in June, Zeller made the safe choice.
"That's basketball, (injuries) can happen at any time," Zeller said. "It's part of the game, part of what goes into the decision, and that was the risk of coming back this year, too."
Where exactly Zeller falls in the draft will likely be determined on the workout circuit. Zeller said he intends to trade notes with Oladipo as the two vie to be top-10 picks and promised to finish his degree by completing two summer sessions and six credits of online work.
While athletic 7-footers such as Zeller are a rare commodity, the transition from being known around as campus as "The Big Handsome" to being just another NBA rookie comes with many potential pitfalls. Some analysts believe Zeller still needs to get bigger and stronger and must figure out how to play through contact. And should Zeller need any additional advice on what it will take to make it, he can make a couple of phone calls.
"It's a huge adjustment because you're not always the biggest and strongest. You're playing against grown men every night," Tyler Zeller said after Wednesday night's loss to the Pacers.
The youngest Zeller, Indiana's 2011 Mr. Basketball and a three-time state champ, is ready to give it a try.
"I think the guys kind of expected it," Zeller said. "The people who helped me the most, I asked them to put themselves in my shoes and asked what they would do. A lot of them, a lot of teammates told me they would go."


CORAL GABLES, Fla. -- Shane Larkin was told he was too short to be an elite college guard, a theory he debunked with ease.
So now he's taking on a new challenge.
After leading Miami to the Atlantic Coast Conference regular-season and tournament championships this past season, Larkin announced Sunday that he's forgoing his final two years of eligibility with the Hurricanes and entering the NBA draft, where he's projected to be chosen possibly as high as a mid-to-late first-rounder.
"I can honestly sit here and say this is the most difficult decision I've ever had to make in my life," Larkin said. "I've probably gone back and forth on this 100 times, just because I love the university so much."
After all that, he's going forth, as are so many others who played big roles for the Hurricanes in their 29-win season that saw them climb as high as No. 2 in The Associated Press Top 25 poll. Despite rarely looking for his own shot, Larkin led the Hurricanes in scoring at 14.5 points per game -- and the next five names on that list are all departing seniors.
Still, Miami coach Jim Larranaga was beaming after Larkin broke the news that had been expected for some time.
"This is another first for us," Larranaga said. "We've had a lot of firsts this year. You know, a lot of things went really, really well. And this is another milestone. If someone we're recruiting in the future says 'Hey, have you ever had somebody go one-and-done or two-and-done?' we can now say, 'Yes, Shane Larkin did.' Before that, we couldn't. Shane's going to be the first."
Larkin, who lists his height at 5-foot-11, is the son of Baseball Hall of Fame player Barry Larkin, who said Friday that his son was turning pro unless there was some sort of epiphany over the weekend.
That didn't happen. Larkin said he finished his decision-making process on Saturday, then texted Miami teammates around 2 p.m. Sunday so they could hear the word from him.
"It really just came down to what was in my heart and what was in my gut," Larkin said.
It also came down to what he saw.
When Miami lost to Marquette in the round of 16 of the NCAA tournament, Larkin -- who spent the day before that game fighting through an illness -- thought he would absolutely return to school because he didn't want his college career to end on such a bad note.
He then saw the devastating leg injury that ended the season for Louisville guard Kevin Ware, and Larkin's mind began to waver.
"I just thought to myself, if I did come back to school and something horrific happened -- even though it's a one-in-a-million chance -- if something horrific happened to me like that, would I be able to live with myself, seeing that my dream was right here for me to take," Larkin said. "That was just one of the main things I was thinking about."
"All of the information he has received is that this is the time for him to come out," Barry Larkin told The Associated Press on Friday.
NBA advisers have told the 5-foot-10 Larkin they project him to be drafted somewhere from the middle of the first round to early in the second, Barry Larkin said.
"It's a business decision at this point," the elder Larkin said.
The Hurricanes were 48-20 with Larkin in their lineup.
Larkin was selected as the ACC's player of the year in balloting by the league's coaches, and picked up no fewer than 24 individual awards during the season and postseason. He's now going to have a hectic few days while interviewing agents -- the first step in figuring out pre-draft-workout plans -- and trying to finish his academic requirements to close the semester at Miami.
Larkin said he will get his degree, which would fulfill a promise he made to his mother, and even after making the announcement on Sunday he was huddled with Larranaga to discuss his future academic options.
"I'm missing him already," Larranaga said. "I told him, I just want him to be happy and I want him to come back here a lot."
Information from ESPN.com's Andy Katz and The Associated Press was used in this report.

Maryland sophomore and likely lottery pick Alex Len will be shelved for all pre-draft workouts because of surgery on his left ankle.
Len had surgery to "stabilize" the partial stress fracture in his left ankle, Sports International Group's Michael Lelchitski said in a news release Friday. Recovery time is projected to be four to six months.
That means Len not only will miss team workouts in late May and early June, but also will not be available for testing at the NBA pre-draft combine May 16-17 in Chicago. The draft is June 27.
The 7-foot-1 Len, who averaged 11.9 points and 7.8 rebounds for the Terrapins, won't be able to work out for any teams.
Reaction was mixed as to the effect on Len's draft status.
One NBA personnel decision-maker said Len may drop a few spots, but if a team likes him, then it will take him, regardless of the injury.
The personnel director said the situation is akin to Kentucky's Nerlens Noel, who won't be able to work out while he recovers from a torn ACL.
"In a draft like this, when teams aren't in love with a lot of players, if you like someone before this, then you'll take him,'' the personnel director said.
One general manager said there are lingering questions about Len, who could have been a workout wonder and moved up in the draft if he had been able to get in front of a lot of decision-makers.
Lelchitski acknowledged the timing of the injury could hurt Len.
"Everyone who knows Alex knows that he would have been incredible in the pre-draft workout setting,'' Lelchitski said in the release. "However, Alex is one of the elite prospects with arguably the biggest upside of anyone in the draft. The most important thing is his long-term health."
Dr. Robert Anderson performed the surgery in Charlotte, N.C., and said in the news release that surgery was the best option long term for Len. He said Len will make a full return to the court in a few months.
Len sought a number of opinions before choosing surgery.
"I didn't want to risk it not healing properly," Len said in the release. "I want to make sure I'm fully healthy and ready for training camp."

NEW YORK -- Nick Gilbert and the Cleveland Cavaliers have beaten the NBA lottery odds again.
The Cavaliers won the lottery for the second time in three years Tuesday, giving them the No. 1 pick for the June 27 draft.
Gilbert, owner Dan Gilbert's bowtie-wearing 16-year-old son, was on stage for another victory. After he won it in 2011, the Cavs used the pick to take eventual Rookie of the Year Kyrie Irving.
"Kyrie is a hell of a player ... but this also felt almost as good," Nick Gilbert said. "That was the first time. This is the second time, but man does it feel good to get the first pick this last time. Get that last player to give us a push."
The Orlando Magic fell back one spot to No. 2, while the Washington Wizards vaulted from the No. 8 spot to third.
Ten years after winning the lottery that landed them LeBron James, the Cavaliers picked up another opportunity to help speed up the rebuilding process since his departure to Miami in 2010.
The potential No. 1 pick this year, Kentucky freshman Nerlens Noel, is no James. But he could be a nice addition for the Cavs once he's recovered from a torn ACL -- if they keep the pick. They also have Nos. 19, 31 and 33 for new coach Mike Brown, who they rehired after firing Byron Scott following a 24-58 season.
"We were hoping regardless of what pick we got that this would be our last lottery," Dan Gilbert said. "We thought originally after everything had to be reset that it would be a three-year process. You never know. It could be four. We thought three years, but having No. 1 and 19, we've got a pretty good chance of this being the last one for a while."
Dan Gilbert and the rest of the Cavs entourage -- all wearing wine-colored bowties as well -- celebrated their latest victory, which came with 15.6 percent odds after they finished with the NBA's third-worst record at 24-58.
"For everyone in Cleveland who has supported us through these three years, I think this is for them," Dan Gilbert said. "Is that right, Nick?"
"It feels good," Nick said.
Dan Gilbert called Nick, born with Neurofibromatosis (NF), a nerve disorder that causes tumors to grow anywhere in the body at any time, his "hero" after the 2011 win.
Nick, who wears thick glasses, charmed viewers before that one, responding to a question about being there by saying: "What's not to like?"
He wore a stern look this time, saying he expected he was done coming here and that he believed the Cavs would be in the playoffs next season.
They got a nice jump on that goal.
Not even having four-time winner Pat Williams on stage and 25 percent odds could get the No. 1 pick for the Magic. The team with the best odds hasn't won since 2004, when Orlando won for the third time with Williams representing them and drafted Dwight Howard. The franchise hadn't been back since 2006.
"We had such a nice run up here, over the years. Yeah, we came to win, so when they turned Cleveland over it was like "How did that happen? Absolutely! How did that happen?" Williams said.
"We had a better shot, a better percentage. ... I think the Lord was looking out for that little guy from Cleveland."
Even heading back to their Hornets name couldn't change the luck of the Bobcats, who were lottery losers for the second straight year. Hours after owner Michael Jordan announced they were planning to get back the original nickname of the Charlotte franchise, the Bobcats fell from No. 2 to the fourth spot.
Last year, Charlotte had the best odds of winning after the worst season in NBA history but fell back one spot to second.
The lottery sets the top three teams, and the remainder of the 14 teams finish in inverse order of their record.
Phoenix will pick fifth, followed by New Orleans, Sacramento, Detroit, Minnesota, Portland, Philadelphia, Oklahoma City, Dallas, and Utah.
The Thunder got the Raptors' pick as payment of a previous trade because it didn't move into the top three. Bryan Colangelo represented the team on stage on the day the Raptors announced he would stay on as team president but they would hire a general manager.
Guards Ben McLemore of Kansas and Trey Burke of Michigan, the college player of the year, and Georgetown forward Otto Porter Jr. are considered other top available players.
With uncertainty at the top, this is another year when the No. 1 pick could've been a high school player if eligible. Kansas-bound prep star Andrew Wiggins may have been the choice, but the age limit requiring players to be 19 years old and a year out of high school will remain unchanged at least until the players' association has a new executive director to replace the ousted Billy Hunter.
The union would like the limit to be lowered or scrapped entirely, while the NBA has expressed interest in raising it to 20.

NEW YORK -- Anthony Bennett was stunned at the start. David Stern had a big surprise at the finish.
In between, Nerlens Noel and a number of others experienced wild rides to start their careers in an unsettled first round of the 2013 NBA draft.
Bennett became the first Canadian No. 1 overall pick, and Noel tumbled out of the top five and right into a trade.
The draft was as unpredictable as expected, capped by Hakeem Olajuwon coming on stage at the end of the first round to greet Stern. Olajuwon was dressed in the same tuxedo style he wore when Stern called his name to start the soon-to-be retired commissioner's first draft in 1984.
One of the favorites to be taken first Thursday night, Noel fell to No. 6, where the New Orleans Pelicans took him and then dealt his rights to the Philadelphia 76ers for a package headlined by All-Star guard Jrue Holiday, league sources told ESPN.com.
The Cleveland Cavaliers started things by passing on centers Noel and Alex Len, who went to Phoenix at No. 5, in favor Bennett, the UNLV freshman forward who starred for Canada's junior national teams and was the Mountain West Conference freshman of the year. Bennett led a record 12 international players who were taken in the first round.
"I'm just as surprised as anyone else," Bennett said.
There was suspense right until the end, either because the Cavs were unsure who they wanted or were trying to trade the pick. Most predictions had them taking one of the big men, with Noel largely considered the favorite for the No. 1 choice even after a torn ACL that ended his lone season at Kentucky in February.
"I thought everything was in the air, so I wasn't thinking I was the No. 1 pick," Noel said.
Stern, booed heavily in his final draft, added to the surprise of the moment by pausing slightly before announcing the Cavs' pick, their first at No. 1 since taking All-Star Kyrie Irving in 2011.
Orlando passed on both of the big men, too, going with Indiana swingman Victor Oladipo with the No. 2 pick. Washington took Otto Porter Jr. with the third pick, keeping the Georgetown star in town.
Ten years after the Cavaliers selected LeBron James to start a draft that included future NBA championship teammates Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh in the top five, this one lacked star power and perhaps even the promise of stardom.
Bennett, Noel and Len are all coming off injuries and couldn't even work out for teams, but the Cavs decided Bennett's shoulder surgery wasn't enough cause for concern.
Len walked up to meet Stern and collect his orange Suns hat, then sat down near the stage to put on the walking boot he needs for the stress fracture of his left ankle that was discovered after Maryland's season.
Noel finally went to New Orleans with the next pick. He didn't seem upset at his fall down the draft board, hugging his mother and shaking hands with Kentucky coach John Calipari.
It was a good start to the night for the Hoosiers, with Cody Zeller going to the Charlotte Bobcats two places after Oladipo.
Kansas guard Ben McLemore, another player who was considered a potential top-three pick, also dropped, going seventh to Sacramento.
Headed by a lackluster class, the draft promised confusion and second-guessing, with no consensus No. 1 pick and little agreement among the order of the top five.
The guys coming into the league were glad for the attention they did finally get once their names were called.
"It's like a weight vest you took off after running five miles," Oladipo said. "It's relaxing, man. But at the same time, you know it's just getting started."
National player of the year Trey Burke of Michigan also was traded, the Minnesota Timberwolves sending his rights to Utah for the rights to Shabazz Muhammad and Gorgui Dieng, the Nos. 14 and 21 picks.
Lehigh's C.J. McCollum rounded out the top 10 by going to Portland.
Stern, retiring in February, seemed to play up the boos, which turned to cheers after every pick, fans perhaps as puzzled as some of the players at the names they were hearing.
"I was just kidding my agent because he didn't bail me out," Zeller said. "He didn't tell me. I didn't know until David Stern announced it. It's a crazy process not knowing, but I'm definitely excited that I ended up with the Bobcats."
Other players couldn't get too excited about their new addresses, because they changed quickly.
Stern was announcing deals by the middle of the first round and they promised to keep coming after he called it a night and turned things over to deputy commissioner Adam Silver for the final 30 picks.
The flurry of trades wasn't surprising with so much uncertainty surrounding this class and so much hope in other areas. Teams such as Houston, Dallas and Atlanta already have an eye on Dwight Howard's future, needing to have necessary salary-cap space to offer a maximum contract that could lure him away from Los Angeles.
The 2014 class -- which could be topped by a second straight Canadian in incoming Kansas freshman Andrew Wiggins -- will be higher regarded than this one, with James perhaps heading the available free agents to follow.
Local fans seemed pleased with their picks, cheering loudly when the Nets took Duke forward Mason Plumlee at No. 22 and the New York Knicks grabbed Michigan's Tim Hardaway Jr. two picks later.
Stern made his final pick to close the first round to cheers of "David! David!" before handing things off to Silver.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

There aren't many things in professional sports that live up to the hype. The 2003 NBA draft was one of them.
Excitement was building for over a year -- first among league executives and then among fans -- about the new blood on its way. And boy, did the league need it.
The NBA was in a recession. With Michael Jordan retired, for good this time, and a scarcity of marketable young stars, fan interest had waned. Outside of the Los Angeles Lakers and their stars, Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal, the league didn't have many national draws.
The 2003 NBA Finals between the San Antonio Spurs and New Jersey Nets were the lowest rated in history, losing more than 50 percent of the audience from just five years earlier when Jordan won his last title with the Bulls.
There was a belief, or at least a hope, that a new generation of stars could turn things around, and the 2003 class had several promising candidates.
LeBron James was the first high school basketball player whose stardom had already reached to national level thanks to several magazine covers and games broadcast on ESPN before he'd even turned 18 years old. Carmelo Anthony catapulted into the spotlight by leading Syracuse to the national title as just a freshman. A tough Chicago kid named Dwyane Wade also made a name for himself in the same NCAA tournament, leading Marquette to an improbable Final Four run and completing one of the greatest performances in tournament history with a triple-double against Kentucky.
It wasn't just domestic players, either. With Dirk Nowitzki becoming a superstar and Yao Ming a superstar in the making, teams began jetting off across the world to try to find the next international star, and a 17-year-old with bleach-blond hair named Darko Milicic became an obsession for many who did.
"When you've been around long enough you get to where you know it when you see a potential franchise player," Miami Heat president Pat Riley said. "We all knew there were several special players in that draft. You could feel it. And we all wanted them."
With so much talent to be had, draft positioning became a major storyline of the 2002-03 regular season, with fans and media alike keeping a close eye on the bottom of the league standings. With so much interest, the usually mundane draft lottery -- in which the league reveals the order of the teams with the first 13 picks -- became a major TV event. And on the night of the draft itself, several teams made decisions that charted a course for the league over the next decade.
It's now been 10 years since those events, and the people involved all have stories to tell. Some of the memories are fond. Some are disastrous.
May 22, 2003, the day of the draft lottery, was a pivotal one in NBA history, but the action began the night before.
Just after midnight on that Thursday morning, James arrived at a hotel in downtown Akron, Ohio, to sign paperwork that instantly made him one of the richest basketball players in history. He was 18 years old and two weeks shy of graduating high school.
After a months-long recruitment, private jets picking him up after school, parties and visits to corporate headquarters, James had decided on a shoe company. Officials from Reebok were in the hotel and expected to make a deal with the young star. But even though Reebok offered more guaranteed money, James chose an offer from Nike at the last moment.
It was for seven years and would eventually earn him in excess of $100 million, but there was a $10 million bonus as soon as James signed the offer sheet in the wee hours that morning. The check arrived a few days later via FedEx.
All before James had played an NBA game, been drafted or even knew which team was going to win the right to take him with the No. 1 overall pick that night. Which was the point of doing it on lottery day.
LeBron James (forward, St. Vincent-St. Mary's, Ohio): I was able to go into the lottery with an open mind when I got the Nike deal done. It was something that took a while to come together but it was set up so it didn't matter where I played. That was important to me.
Aaron Goodwin (James' agent, 2003-05): The shoe companies were concerned about what market he was going to be in; they preferred to wait until after the lottery. I wanted it to be about him, he was in maximum position in a bidding war. We took out the "what-ifs." Getting that done was the culmination of an intense few days.
Maverick Carter (James' friend and business partner): That was a big event. Reebok was offering more money but LeBron picked Nike. We were so focused on the things we had to do, like his first commercial or what his first shoe would look like, than we were about the money.
Goodwin: A few days before that LeBron did a deal with Upper Deck and got a million-dollar check so he was already rolling in dough.
Carter: A hundred million is a lot of money but it wasn't like he could go into a room with it and swim in it like Scrooge McDuck. He just couldn't wait to do the work.
Goodwin: The suite I was in at the hotel had a large Jacuzzi and after all the paperwork was done I wanted to relax so I got in. I was so tired I fell asleep in the damn tub.
The lottery was also on the night of Game 3 of the Eastern Conference finals between the New Jersey Nets and the Detroit Pistons. The Pistons went to John Jay College in Manhattan, N.Y., a popular spot for visiting NBA teams, for their morning shootaround.
Marc Cornstein (Darko Milicic's agent): I remember it so well. It was the day of the lottery and we used the gym at John Jay as our draft training gym. The Pistons were there, too. It wasn't set up as a workout for the Pistons. It was a regular day where Darko was working out and our other guys who were in the draft were on the road so he was in the gym by himself. He was just out there with a trainer. It was the same time we did it every day. It had nothing to do with the Pistons. It was a pure coincidence.
Chad Ford (draft analyst, ESPN): Darko had just arrived in New York a few days before that. There's just a curtain that was separating the two gyms and I walked over to (Pistons president) Joe Dumars and asked if he knew who was working out next door and he said he didn't. I told him Darko was over there. He asked Cornstein if he could come over. It was an impromptu workout.
Chris McCosky (Pistons beat writer, Detroit News): I don't think it was a coincidence. I remember they were talking about it the day before.
Cornstein: A number of guys filtered over to the other gym. Every shot, every move, he just looked phenomenal. Everyone from the Pistons was there. Joe Dumars, [coach] Rick [Carlisle]. Top to bottom, they were all there.
Ford: Darko was just phenomenal. It couldn't have been more perfect in a certain way. At some point the coaches got involved and asked to see particular things. And Darko couldn't miss and was aggressive and rose to the moment with the players watching. I was sitting next to (Dumars). He's not expressive, he plays everything close to the vest. But Darko was just so impressive. It was literally the best workout I've ever seen. I've seen hundreds and it was the best. When you have a 7-1 kid, who is 17 years old, doing the things he was doing, it was a "wow" moment, especially for a team that needed a big man. There was just a buzz afterward.
Tony Ronzone (Pistons executive, 2001-10): Our guys were like, "Oh my God, look at this guy." One dribble from the foul line, dunk. Lefty hook. Quick feet. He had great lateral quickness for a big. He had spin moves. It was unbelievable. He was a freak athlete at 17. He runs like a deer. He jumps. You were saying "wow." You could check off everything on the list.
Jon Barry (Pistons guard, 2001-03): I remember Joe Dumars saying we're working him out. I think half a dozen of us went over to watch. Dumars, he was telling me this guy is going to be the deal. Said "he's better than Dirk. He's going to be an absolute stud." So I said, I'm going to go check him out.
Cornstein: The Pistons walked away impressed but depressed. They thought when everyone else eventually saw him there would be no way they'd be able to draft Darko.
For the first time, the lottery was broadcast in prime time and was a standalone half-hour show. ABC had just taken over the NBA rights from NBC, which had always shown the lottery during halftime of a weekend playoff game. With so much attention on this draft class, ABC extended the coverage and broadcast it from what was then the NBA Entertainment Studios in Secaucus, N.J., just a few miles away from the Meadowlands Arena, where Game 3 of the Eastern Conference finals would happen.
With 17-65 records, the Cleveland Cavaliers and Denver Nuggets had the best chances to win, at 22.5 percent each. But the team with the best odds to win the lottery hadn't since 1990.
Mike Tirico (host of lottery show, ABC): This was a big deal draft because it was LeBron and Carmelo and America knew who these guys were. We were in prime time and it was our first year of the deal. All those trains were coming into the station at the same time. Management decided to make it a big event. Looking back, that was a great decision. One of the things I really remember was this reception before the show. It was filled with all anxious and uncomfortable people. It was a unique scene to be a part of. It was quite intimate. I remember thinking most people in there are going to walk out unhappy.
Chris Tomasson (Nuggets beat writer, Rocky Mountain News): (Cavaliers owner) Gordon Gund seemed a bit apprehensive. He ate dinner with some media members, which never happened in the five seasons I covered the Cavs at the Akron Beacon Journal. It was amazing he did it in that pivotal of a moment because he'd always kept his distance. I think he was looking for anyone he knew to ease the tension.
Warren Thaler (Cavaliers board of directors): We were in the hallway and it was time for me to go into the room where they were doing the lottery drawing. I was about to part ways with Gordon and I could just tell he was nervous. I wanted to try to relax him. So I said, "Gordon, you know, this isn't like finding a cure for blindness."1
Gund: I looked at Warren and told him, "It's pretty damn close."2
Tirico: The lottery is a hard show because it's specifically scripted and we get into all these explanations. It was so involved we had to have a full rehearsal in the studio. In the rehearsal I remember the Nuggets won the lottery. It was a unique time for us. We had live shots from the hotel where LeBron was in Akron, Carmelo was at his house in Baltimore and Darko was at his agent's house in New York.
James: There had been a lot of speculation that I was going to be the No. 1 pick so I knew whoever won the lottery, that's where I was going. So of course I was nervous. We had rented out this suite at the Radisson Hotel in downtown Akron and all my friends and family were there. I just remember sitting alone with everyone behind me. And with each pick I could hear this buzzing behind me.
Goodwin: LeBron and everyone were nervous. There were a lot of people there but you could tell they were enjoying it.
Carmelo Anthony (forward, Syracuse): I was just happy that I was going to be in the league. I was excited that this was just the next step. It was a good time.
Kiki Vandeweghe (Nuggets general manager, 2001-06): I remember thinking about loving both LeBron and Melo and I really thought Melo was going second at that point. So you're really hoping to get in those first two picks.
No team was in a more awkward position on lottery night than the Memphis Grizzlies. After going 28-54 in the 2002-03 season, Memphis had the sixth-best chance (6.4 percent) to get the top overall pick. But that's all the Grizzlies could hope for.
In 1997, then-Vancouver Grizzlies general manager Stu Jackson traded a future first-round pick to the Pistons for Otis Thorpe. The pick had various protections on it, but by 2003, the only way the Grizzlies would keep their pick was if it was No. 1 overall.
The Pistons made the move, at least in part, because Thorpe clashed with then-coach Doug Collins at the time. Thorpe, who was 35 at the time of the trade, played 47 mostly unhappy games with the Grizzlies before being traded to the Sacramento Kings for Bobby Hurley just before the trade deadline in 1998.
Memphis also owned the Houston Rockets' No. 13 pick from the 1999 Steve Francis trade. But that pick only had a 0.5 percent chance of moving up to No. 1. It did not. Memphis ended up taking Marcus Banks with that pick and trading him on draft night to Boston.
Jerry West (Memphis Grizzlies general manager, 2002-07): I hate the lottery; I think it's a terrible thing. And I say that knowing it has worked reasonably well. You have to rely on hope.
Ford: I'm surprised Jerry wanted to be there. I think Memphis had a 6 percent chance of getting the top pick; anything else and it would immediately lose the pick to Detroit. Any other result than getting No. 1 would've made it a disappointment. Maybe it would've been better if Stu Jackson (by then a vice president with the league office) had to be there. That trade was horrible.
Shane Battier (Grizzlies forward, 2001-06): We knew the whole year that we weren't going to get an impact player in the draft because of Otis Thorpe. It became a running joke. I don't think Stu Jackson could've come to a Grizzlies game that year because the fans of Memphis knew it, everybody knew it.
West: For a trade that, when you look back in history, was made for whatever reason, it was hard to imagine that a trade like that would've been made and not protect a team that hadn't proven its worth yet. I'm not going to bad mouth anybody but that was an ill-advised decision.
Tirico: The thing about the lottery is it is both tense and very boring. Teams with very little chance of moving up are called off. But things changed when (NBA Deputy Commissioner) Russ Granik opened the envelope for the sixth pick that was supposed to be the Grizzlies. It wasn't, it was the Clippers logo and we knew we'd just had something dramatic happen. The Grizzlies had moved up.
Riley: I wasn't even watching, I was sitting in my office with my eyes closed just listening to the TV and hoping to move up. We were supposed to be fourth. But then Memphis moved up past us. At that point, I was rooting for Jerry to get LeBron. That was all he had, everyone knew about that trade.
James: My mind was moving fast. I was thinking about a lot of different possibilities. I was thinking about Chicago winning it because I'd been a Bulls fan when I was younger. I knew New York was in there. Not everyone was rooting for Cleveland (40 miles from James' hometown), people had different picks. Some people wanted me to go to Miami for obvious reasons. I never thought once about Memphis.
When Granik finished opening the first 10 envelopes, only one team had moved up: the Grizzlies. They were in the top three along with the Nuggets and Cavs. The Toronto Raptors, who had a 15 percent chance of winning, were knocked to No. 4. ABC went to commercial as the studio and fans of all three teams tensed.
West: You're sitting there scared to death that we're not going to have our pick and you're begging, "Please let us have this pick." We all knew what was at stake for us. Then you see that you've moved up and your heart goes into your throat a little.
Gund: Jerry had always been lucky so I somehow felt good about our chance. I told him, "Here we go."
James: When it went to commercial and we knew the top three were Denver, Memphis and Cleveland, I just had a feeling that I'm going to stay home. I could hear the chatter starting in the room. They were getting excited.
Goodwin: By then we all wanted Cleveland, it was going to be a fairy tale.
Vandeweghe: I was nervous. I was telling myself, whatever happens now it's OK because we're going to get someone we really like. But you're always wanting that first pick.
Battier: I was like, holy s---, we might get this kid.
Granik opened the envelope for the third pick, revealing the Nuggets' logo. Then he cracked the one with a large No. 2 on it and pulled out the Grizzlies' logo. "That means ..." Granik said. Few involved even saw him pull the Cavaliers' logo from the envelope.
James: When the envelope opened and said (Memphis) I don't even remember them opening the one that said Cleveland. Everyone just started yelling and coming over to me and jumping on me. From then on that night it was a blur. I didn't even see them pull out the jersey with my name on it, I didn't see that until later.
West: It was devastating to the franchise to not have that pick. We were able to build a respectable team after that but just imagine having a player like Mr. James playing for your team. It was unbelievably disappointing. For some of us, we were filled with anger because we were thinking, "How could we not have this draft pick protected?" With all the good things that have been done in Memphis and where they are today, that franchise could've come so much farther. It hurts to think about. It was a sad day.
Battier: I still remember the look on Jerry's face.
Ford: It was cruel in a certain way to the Grizzlies. Jerry couldn't constrain his facial expression. It made for great TV but it was very rough on him.
The following season, West won Executive of the Year after the Grizzlies made the playoffs for the first time in franchise history.
Anthony: At that point I was pretty sure I was going to Detroit. I thought I was going to definitely be that No. 2 pick if Cleveland was taking Bron as it looked like.
Dumars: When they drew the Nuggets card at No. 3 my heart stopped for the 60 seconds it took Russ Granik to reveal who was No. 2. It didn't start until I heard Memphis' name at No. 2. 3
Cornstein: The stars had aligned. It was surreal. Eight hours earlier the Pistons were dreaming of getting Darko and then they had the No. 2 pick. By the end of the night I'd heard from the Pistons and were pretty sure they were going to take him with that pick.
Ronzone: We were like, "Can you believe this guy just fell into our lap?"
James: The only thing I really remember from after the lottery that night was seeing Austin Carr crying on television. That got to me; that got me excited.
Austin Carr (No. 1 overall pick in 1970, Cavs broadcaster): We held a lottery party at this restaurant and when that envelope opened and they pulled (Memphis) the place just exploded. I was overcome with emotion and I couldn't hold back. I had no idea the cameras were on me. I just knew he was a great player and would do great things and I wasn't wrong.
Goodwin: Within a half hour I heard from Jim Paxson that they'd be taking LeBron and they'd be in touch soon.
Jim Paxson (Cavs general manager, 1999-2005): Right after we won I got in the car and drove to a lottery party the team was having where Austin was crying in front of the cameras. Then my phone rang and it was from a 609 area code. That was (Gund's) area code and I thought he was calling me back because we'd only briefly talked. I answer and it's Wes Wesley. He basically said congratulations on winning the lottery and Larry Brown would really like to coach LeBron. We didn't have a coach at the time but weren't thinking at all about Larry; he was the coach of the 76ers, but I knew Wes was very close to him. We hung up but I never heard from Wes or Larry about it again.
Within 10 days, Brown had resigned as coach of the 76ers and was hired to replace Carlisle as coach of the Pistons. Brown led the Pistons to a title the next season.
Cornstein: After the lottery, we all went out to dinner at Mr. Chow's. And then Mariah Carey sat down at the next table. I mean, this day was surreal, you couldn't make this stuff up.
Ford: Darko had never had Chinese food before. He was upset because he wanted bread. They brought him out some Mu Shu pancakes. He was like, "What the heck is this?" That's when you realized how young he was and how new this all was to him. He was discombobulated. It was funny at the time but it was one of those little signs of how hard the transition was going to be for him.
Tirico: During halftime of the Nets-Pistons game we did a three-way interview with LeBron and Carmelo. What struck me then and even now was how composed LeBron was. I couldn't have done that when I was 18. He came right out of high school and was about to become a global mega star in his backyard.
Anthony: LeBron and I were talking during the lottery about what was going on. I kind of knew Cleveland was going to get the No. 1 pick. I think they rigged it. But no, I'm kidding, don't quote me on that. 4
1 - Gund, who has Retinitis Pigmentosa and went blind as a young man, has spent his life funding research for a cure.
2 - The interviews with Gund and Thaler took place in 2006.
3 - Dumars said this in an interview with ESPN.com on the day of the lottery.
4 - Anthony said this in a live interview on ABC the night of the lottery.

Former Baylor center Isaiah Austin sits down with Holly Rowe to talk about his recent diagnosis with Marfan syndrome, a genetic disorder that affects the body's connective tissue and will end his playing career. (2:39)
Former Baylor star Isaiah Austin has been diagnosed with a serious medical condition and will not be able to pursue a career in the NBA, it was announced Sunday.
The 20-year-old Austin, who had been projected as a late first-round pick, underwent a standard physical at the NBA combine where his EKG test revealed an abnormality. After additional genetic tests, results came back positive for Marfan syndrome.
The recommendation was that Austin, who is 7 foot 1, quit playing basketball immediately.
"They said I wouldn't be able to play basketball anymore at a competitive level," Austin told ESPN's Holly Rowe. "They found the gene in my blood sample. They told me that my arteries in my heart are enlarged and that if I overwork myself and push too hard that my heart could rupture. The draft is four days away, and I had a dream that my name was going to be called."
Of what he's learned from this process, Austin told Rowe: "For all of my supporters, I just want to tell them sorry. I'm sorry they couldn't see me play in the NBA. But it's not the end; it's only the beginning."
Austin's mother, Lisa Green, drove through the night Friday from Kansas to Dallas to deliver the career-ending diagnosis in person. Friends and family, including Baylor coach Scott Drew and Austin's high school coaches, gathered to tell him the news.
"This is devastating news, but Isaiah has the best support system anyone could ask for, and he knows that all of Baylor Nation is behind him," Drew said in a statement. "His health is the most important thing, and while it's extremely sad that he won't be able to play in the NBA, our hope is that he'll return to Baylor to complete his degree and serve as a coach in our program."
Included in Austin's supporters was Washington Redskins quarterback Robert Griffin III, who reached out on Twitter.
Please send up a prayer for @IsaiahAustin  who was diagnosed with a career-ending medical condition. Great Player & better person
- Robert Griffin III (@RGIII) June 22, 2014
Although no team will call his name that night, NBA commissioner Adam Silver has invited Austin to the NBA draft as his guest.
Austin, for his part, was staying positive on Twitter.
Words can't explain how thankful I am for the time I had to play this wonderful sport. It changed my life forever. #NewBeginnings
- God's Child (@IsaiahAustin) June 22, 2014
I would love to thank EVERYONE who has reached out to me. Toughest days of my life. But not the last! Life goes on. GOD IS STILL GREAT! 
- God's Child (@IsaiahAustin) June 22, 2014
Austin already overcame the odds to play basketball. He has been blind in his right eye since age 16 after suffering a retinal detachment and four subsequent surgeries.
He spent two seasons at Baylor, averaging 12.1 points, 6.9 rebounds and 2.4 blocks in 28.9 minutes per game.
Some athletes have died on the court as a result of Marfan syndrome and associated aortic problems, among them noted Olympic volleyball star Flo Hyman.
According to the Marfan Foundation, Marfan syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects the connective tissue that holds together all of the body's cells, organs and tissue. It also plays an important role in helping the body grow and develop properly. Because connective tissue is found throughout the body, Marfan syndrome can affect many different parts of the body.
Features of the disorder are most often found in the heart, blood vessels, bones, joints, and eyes. Some Marfan features -- for example, aortic enlargement (expansion of the main blood vessel that carries blood away from the heart to the rest of the body) -- can be life-threatening. The lungs, skin and nervous system may also be affected. Marfan syndrome does not affect intelligence.

Australian phenom Dante Exum has decided to declare for the 2014 NBA draft, his family and agent told ESPN.com on Tuesday.
Exum has agreed to hire agents Rob Pelinka and Brandon Rosenthal of Landmark Sports Agency. Pelinka's clients include Kobe Bryant, James Harden, Andre Iguodala and Andre Drummond.
"We are excited to be working with Landmark Sports," Exum and his parents, Cecil and Desiree, said in a statement to ESPN. "Our family felt The Landmark Team represented our style and manner of treating people, and in doing businesses. We also all shared a common commitment to achieving excellence in all things. The fit is just great and we are really pleased to now begin the work."
Exum and his family met eight different agents in Melbourne during the past month before making their choice Tuesday morning.
"We are thrilled and honored to be working with Dante and his family," Pelinka said in a statement to ESPN. "As the NBA continues to expand its brand around the world, we feel like Dante's international story comes at a perfect time. We also believe that, with continued hard work and focus, Dante is destined to be a 'franchise' point guard in this next generation of great NBA players."
Exum, 18, is widely regarded as a top-five draft pick by NBA scouts and general managers. He is currently ranked No. 4 in ESPN's Top 100, and is ranked as the No. 1 point guard on ESPN.com's Big Board.
Exum's star rose with a terrific Nike Hoop Summit performance in April followed by a big performance last summer at the FIBA U-19 championships, where he averaged 18 points and nearly four assists per game. He had a 33-point game against Spain in the quarterfinals and a 28-point game vs. Lithuania in the bronze-medal game.
Exum returned to Australia this fall to finish his high school career and led his team, Lake Ginninderra, to the national schools basketball title last week. Exum had 15 assists in the championship game.
Exum can play both guard positions and has the ideal blend of athleticism and skill. However, scouts believe that ultimately he'll be an NBA point guard with elite size (6-foot-6, 188 pounds) as he is very quick with the ball and gets to the rim almost effortlessly.
His jump shot is still a work in progress -- the primary weakness in his game. If he were playing college ball in the U.S., many NBA scouts believe he would be a serious contender for the No. 1 overall pick.

NC State sophomore forward T.J. Warren is heading to the NBA, sources confirmed to ESPN.
Wolfpack coach Mark Gottfried told Andy Katz of ESPN.com on Monday that Warren "has not decided yet" and will meet with his family Thursday to discuss the matter.
The 6-foot-8 Warren averaged 24.9 points and 7.1 rebounds this season and won ACC Player of the Year honors. He is considered a first-round selection and could wind up being a lottery pick, multiple NBA executives told ESPN.
The news was earlier reported by Yahoo! Sports.

Ohio State junior forward LaQuinton Ross will declare for the NBA Draft, sources told ESPN.
The 6-foot-8 Mississippi native averaged 15.2 points and 5.9 rebounds for the Buckeyes this past season. Sources said Ross with Buckeyes coach Thad Matta on Monday afternoon to inform him of his decision.
Ross helped take Ohio State to the NCAA tournament, where the Buckeyes lost to Dayton in the second round.
Ross is considered a fringe first-round pick. A year ago, Ohio State's Deshaun Thomas left after his junior campaign and wound up being selected in the second round.

Syracuse freshman guard Tyler Ennis is headed to the NBA, the school said Thursday.
Chad Ford, Kevin Pelton and Amin Elhassan offer a multiperspective look at NBA draft prospect Tyler Ennis.
The 6-foot-2 Canadian informed Orange coach Jim Boeheim of his decision Thursday afternoon.
"I'd like to thank Coach Boeheim, the coaching staff, my teammates and the amazing fans for the opportunity to play at a great university like Syracuse," Ennis said in a statement released by the school. "This experience has helped prepare me to fulfill my lifelong dream to play in the NBA."
Ennis wasn't on the radar for many NBA executives, but he had a terrific freshman season and was key in Syracuse's starting 25-0. The Orange struggled down the stretch and lost to Dayton in the third round of the NCAA tournament.
Ennis, a true point guard who averaged 12.9 points, 5.5 assists and 3.4 rebounds per game, is projected to be a lottery pick by ESPN NBA Insider Chad Ford.
"It'll probably come down to him and Marcus Smart as far as the top point guard taken in the draft," one NBA general manager told ESPN.

Xavier's Semaj Christon is heading to the NBA.
The Musketeers sophomore guard, who led the team in scoring this past season, told ESPN.com he will forgo his final two seasons of college eligibility and declare for the NBA draft.
"It's been my lifelong dream of playing in the NBA. Xavier has been a great experience, but now it's time for me to move onto a different chapter in my life for me and my family," Christon said.
The 6-foot-2 Christon is considered a fringe first-round pick, according to multiple NBA sources.
Xavier was 21-13 this past season and lost to NC State in the first round of the NCAA tournament. The Musketeers will return Justin Martin and Matt Stainbrook, and add a heralded recruiting class that includes Trevon Bluiett (ESPN, No. 45) and Edmond Sumner (ESPN, No. 78).

LAWRENCE, Kan. -- Kansas freshman Andrew Wiggins made official Monday what he's been telling folks all along: He's headed to the NBA after his only season with the Jayhawks.
Chad Ford, Kevin Pelton and Amin Elhassan offer a multiperspective look at NBA draft prospect Andrew Wiggins.
The 6-foot-8 forward, who was voted second-team All-America earlier in the day, is expected to go in the top three picks in the June draft. Many believe he could go first overall.
"It wasn't an easy decision because the fans showed me so much love here," said Wiggins, choking up briefly during a news conference at Allen Fieldhouse. "I just wish I had more time. College goes by so fast. I can see why people stay all four years."
Wiggins was the top-rated recruit when he arrived at Kansas, and his brief career was a bit of a roller coaster. He struggled early in the season, caught fire midway through, and then flamed out when it mattered most in an NCAA tournament loss to Stanford.
Wiggins only scored four points on 1-for-6 shooting in the third-round defeat. Afterward, he said despondently that he let his team down with his poor performance.
That ultimately didn't have any bearing on his decision, though. He announced he was going pro while joined by Kansas coach Bill Self, his parents -- former NBA player Mitchell Wiggins and Olympic silver medalist Marita Payne Wiggins -- his older brother Mitchell Jr., and several of his teammates, including fellow freshmen Wayne Selden Jr. and Joel Embiid.
Selden has already announced he's returning for his sophomore season. Embiid has not made a decision, even though he's also expected to be a top-five pick in the draft.
Wiggins certainly had a historic season at Kansas. The Canadian averaged a freshman-record 17.1 points and nearly six rebounds per game, and was voted the AP's Big 12 freshman of the year and first-team all-conference.
"Obviously this announcement needed to happen," said Self, who believes one of the biggest challenges Wiggins will face is realizing that basketball will suddenly become his job.
"It's not like this year. He came in with so much hype, and whether he knew it or not, everybody was salivating for a chance to go against a guy with that much hype," Self said. "And he's going to the next level with a lot of hype, but men are going to be saying, `Whoa, whoa, whoa, rook. I've been doing this a long time and you're going to have to earn your way."
Wiggins simply flashed a smile when asked if he was ready for it.
"Just listening to him now," his father said, "I'm thinking about when he was that little bitty kid that was dirty, and not listening, and now? He's a young man that I think gets it. I think he's going to do very well."
He's also made it through his freshman season healthy. Unlike Embiid, Wiggins never had to deal with any nagging injuries, and his mother said that factored into his decision.
"The best thing is he's not injured. He's able to go ahead and complete part of his goals," she said. "Every day is a new day. He has no injuries and he's ready to go."
Self said Embiid is still wrestling with his stay-or-go decision.
The 7-footer from Cameroon was waylaid late in the season by a stress fracture in his back, and that could factor into Embiid's draft status, along with the fact that he's only been playing basketball for a few years.
Embiid slipped out of the room immediately after Wiggins had finished speaking Monday, but Self told a few reporters that he had not made his decision, despite a report last week that said Embiid would enter the draft.
"That doesn't mean he couldn't still do that, but that was gun-jumping," Self said. "It certainly upset him, because somebody that was a source obviously didn't have good information."
Self doesn't expect Embiid to make his intentions known anytime soon.
"The decision he needs to make is what's best for him," Self said, "whether to stay another year or to go, and I could see him do either one of them. And I think you could make a case that either one would be a good decision. He's not quite like Andrew who's been playing the game his whole life. He's only been playing three years. He's still trying to figure it out."

BATON ROUGE, La. --  LSU post player and leading scorer Johnny O'Bryant III stayed at LSU one year longer than many expected.
Now he's ready to turn pro.
O'Bryant, who has been projected as a late first-round or second-round draft pick, announced Tuesday that he will bypass his senior season and make himself eligible for the NBA draft.
"I am a better player now than a year ago," O'Bryant said. "My mid-range jumper is better. I pass out of the double team better. Now, I have to get ready for the draft. I have no idea where I'll be drafted. I have to get in better shape and work hard. That's it."
O'Bryant averaged a career-high 15.4 points to go with 7.7 rebounds this season.
He has career averages of 12.7 points and 7.7 rebounds a game and has been named to the All-Southeastern Conference first team the past two years -- only the ninth Tigers player to receive the honor twice.
The only three-time All-SEC players from LSU are Bob Pettit (1952-54), Pete Maravich (1968-70) and Shaquille O'Neal (1990-92).
"I am excited for Johnny and his family for his future," LSU coach Johnny Jones said. "But, I would love to have him back. I understand how important it would have been for Johnny to be back.
"Johnny didn't go through the (NBA) evaluation process like last year," Jones added. "The interest shown by the scouts who showed up for our games speaks volume of his game."
O'Bryant ended his career at No. 31 on LSU's scoring list with 1,157 points and No. 20 on the school's rebounding list with 702. He is only the 14th Tigers player to finish with 1,000 points and 700 rebounds.
In O'Bryant's three seasons, LSU never reached the NCAA tournament. The Tigers made NIT appearances in O'Bryant's freshman and junior campaigns. The Tigers lost to Oregon in the first round in 2012 and to SMU in the second round of this year's tournament last week.
"I didn't accomplish everything I wanted to do here," O'Bryant said. "Last year, I said I wanted to take this team to the NCAA tournament. I failed to do that. I took the team as far as I could."
LSU could lose another underclassman to the NBA. Jones said freshman second-team All-SEC post player Jordan Mickey is still deciding if he will put his name in the NBA draft. Freshman forward Jarell Martin has indicated that he will return for his sophomore campaign.
The Tigers will lose three of the six players who averaged at least 20 minutes per game this season: O'Bryant and senior guards Shavon Coleman and Andre Stringer, but Jones has newcomers set to step in at those spots.
Odessa (Tex.) Junior College guard Josh Gray and guard Keith Hornsby, who sat out this past season after transferring from North Carolina-Asheville, are expected to assume the minutes logged by Coleman and Stringer.
LSU has signed two freshman post players -- Elbert Robinson from Garland, Texas, and Anthony Epps from Tioga -- to replace O'Bryant and, possibly, Mickey.
"Josh Gray has the ability to score," Jones said. "He can create opportunities for other people which would be huge for us. Hornsby has size and is strong. He has the ability to score and defend. Hopefully, Elbert Robinson and Anthony Epps will fill the void left by Johnny O'Bryant."

North Carolina forward James Michael McAdoo will forgo his senior season and enter the NBA draft, it was announced Thursday.
"I just feel I am ready to play at the next level and excited about that challenge," McAdoo said in a statement released by the school. "I had chances to go after my freshman and sophomore years but was more excited about coming back to school then. Right now I am excited about fulfilling my dream to play in the NBA and do what I have to do to take that next step."
He thanked coach Roy Williams and said that he plans to return to UNC to earn his degree "without a doubt."
"I am extremely happy for James Michael, but at the same time I am sad for me because I won't get a chance to coach that youngster again," Williams said. "He's a wonderful kid who has been a very dependable player and one of the top players in the ACC the past two seasons."
The 6-foot-9 McAdoo arrived in Chapel Hill as a potential lottery pick but has slid down draft boards over the past two seasons.
McAdoo averaged 14.2 points and 6.8 rebounds this season and, according to multiple NBA executives, is considered a late first-round pick who could slide into the early part of the second round.

LAS VEGAS -- UNLV forward Roscoe Smith, the Mountain West Conference's leading rebounder last season, will forgo his senior season to enter the NBA draft.
Rebels coach Dave Rice made the announcement Friday, saying the junior had provided great energy and leadership while with the team.
Smith averaged 10.9 rebounds per game during the 2013-14 season and 11.1 points. He had 16 double-doubles last season.
In a statement issued by the school, Smith said he had a great experience at UNLV and plans to finish his classes while preparing for the draft.
Smith originally came to UNLV as a transfer from Connecticut, where he was a member of the Huskies' 2011 NCAA championship team.

Chane Behanan, who was dismissed from Louisville in December, will enter the NBA draft, he confirmed via text message to ESPN.com's Jeff Goodman.
Behanan's decision was earlier reported by The Coloradoan.
"I love the game, and I want to compete with the best," he told ESPN. "I also want to show the NBA and the people that Chane Behanan wasn't raised like everybody talks about. My family was devastated about my decision-making in the past, and believe me I've heard it from them still [to] this day. But I am human. It's behind us, and it's nothing but moving forward from here on out."
Behanan, a key member of the Cardinals' 2013 national championship team, signed with Colorado State in January and had been taking online classes. Earlier this month, however, he was cited for marijuana possession in Louisville. He wasn't arrested but is scheduled for a court date on April 29.
He had been in Houston at John Lucas' Wellness and Aftercare program recently and has conceded that he was dismissed from Louisville because of marijuana use.
The 6-foot-6 Behanan initially was suspended by coach Rick Pitino in October for a violation of team rules. He was reinstated in November but dismissed from the team Dec. 30.
Behanan played in just 12 games this season.
As a sophomore, he was instrumental in the Cardinals' run to the national title. He averaged 9.8 points and 6.5 rebounds for the season and had 15 points and 12 boards against Michigan in the championship game.

Guard Andrew Wiggins has joined center Joel Embiid and forward Jabari Parker and decided not to participate in this week's NBA draft combine, sources told ESPN.com.
Duke's Parker and Kansas' Wiggins and Embiid are considered the top three prospects in this year's draft.
Kentucky forward Julius Randle and Australian guard Dante Exum -- both projected high lottery picks -- are expected to attend this year's combine, which will be held Thursday and Friday in Chicago.
Creighton coach Greg McDermott told ESPN.com's Andy Katz that his son Doug, a three-time All-American with the Bluejays, will do physical measurements in Chicago but wasn't sure he would do anything else.
Last year's No. 1 pick, Anthony Bennett, skipped the combine due to a shoulder injury.

NEW YORK -- The Cleveland Cavaliers' lottery luck just keeps going.
The Cavaliers continued their remarkable run Tuesday, winning the No. 1 pick in the NBA draft for the second straight year and third time in the past four. They moved up from the ninth spot despite just a 1.7 percent chance of winning the top selection.
"It seems surreal," Cavs vice chairman Jeff Cohen said. "This is three out of four years, and we had a 1.7 percent chance of coming up with the first pick and we pulled it off again."
They drafted Kyrie Irving first in 2011 and will hope to do better with this win than last year, when they took Anthony Bennett, who had a forgettable rookie season.
Nick Gilbert, the son of Cleveland owner Dan Gilbert, was on the podium for the previous two wins, but general manager David Griffin was there this time.
Griffin had a pin on his lapel from his late grandmother and was carrying one of Nick Gilbert's bowties, which was as lucky in his breast pocket as it was with Nick wearing it.
Irving took to Twitter to comment on his team's good fortune.
Luck of the Ping pong balls...Very exciting!!!
- Kyrie Irving (@KyrieIrving) May 21, 2014
The Cavs now can choose among the likes of Andrew Wiggins and Joel Embiid of Kansas, Duke's Jabari Parker or another player from what's considered to be a deep draft.
"This means everything," Cohen said. "This is the deepest draft arguably since LeBron [James] and Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh and Carmelo Anthony came out."
The Cavs won that one, too, in 2003, when they picked James. But they have been lottery regulars since he bolted for Miami in 2010, and they want that to stop.
"Rebuilding is a process, and we lost a player a number of years back that it was going [to take] some time. Quite frankly it's taken a little bit longer than we'd like, but we've been patient," Cohen said.
"I think now is the time we're going to reap the rewards of our patience."
The Milwaukee Bucks fell one spot to second, and the Philadelphia 76ers will draft third. The Bucks had a 25 percent chance of winning after a league-worst 15-67 record, but the team with the best odds hasn't won since 2004.
The expected strength of the class led to speculation that teams were tanking in hopes of getting a high pick. But the Cavs had playoff expectations, hoping a strong season could make them attractive to James if he was interested in returning home as a free agent.
Nick Gilbert said last year he expected the Cavs to be done with the lottery, but they were right back in Times Square after a disappointing season that resulted in them firing Mike Brown after just one year and a 33-49 record in his second stint with the team. Another top selection surely will make Cleveland more attractive to prospective coaches.
The city of Cleveland might be on a 50-year championship drought, but it has this lottery thing figured out.
The 2011 win was also a stunner, when the Cavs moved up from the No. 8 spot with a pick they had acquired from the Los Angeles Clippers.
And by moving up this year, they hurt the Detroit Pistons, who started eighth but by falling back had to trade the pick to Charlotte as part of a deal for Ben Gordon.
Orlando dropped a spot to fourth and also will have the No. 12 pick from Denver. Utah is No. 5, and the Lakers and Boston Celtics couldn't make the most of rare lottery appearances, with Los Angeles at No. 7 and Boston at No. 6.
The 76ers couldn't move up even with Hall of Famer Julius Erving representing them, but they will have two top-10 picks: their own and New Orleans' at No. 10 from last year's trade that sent Jrue Holiday to the Pelicans.
"If we had No. 3 alone, I would be a little disappointed and so would our group. But the fact that we also have the 10th pick, we may have done better than anyone else," Erving said. "We can get two players out of this draft or leverage those two picks."
Still, the big winners -- again -- were the Cavs.
Nick Gilbert was the hit of the 2011 lottery, his big glasses and bowtie charming viewers. This time it was Mallory Edens, the 18-year-old daughter of incoming Bucks co-owner Wes Edens. She gained thousands of Twitter followers after her brief on-camera interview.
But her Bucks pin wasn't lucky enough to end the run of bad luck for the worst teams.
"I was really nervous, but I'm really happy we got the second pick," Mallory Edens said.
Things kept rolling for the Cavs, who duplicated the feat of Orlando, which went back to back at No. 1 in 1992-93. The latter win, after the Magic had gone 41-41 in Shaquille O'Neal's rookie season, caused the league to change the lottery to a weighted format that gave the worst teams the most chances.
The tanking talk has led to discussions of changing it again, something commissioner Adam Silver has said will be discussed this summer. But he also has said that if there was an ideal solution, the league would have implemented it by now.
The Cavs like it just as it is.
The 2014 draft will take place June 26 and be aired on ESPN.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

NEW YORK -- With Andrew Wiggins at No. 1, it was a big night for Canada and Kansas. And it better be the right one for the Cavaliers.
Cleveland went north of the border to open the NBA draft for the second straight year Thursday night, hoping Wiggins works out better than Anthony Bennett.
Thrilled to go first and even happier when Jayhawks teammate Joel Embiid went two picks later, Wiggins beamed in his black tuxedo jacket with a white floral pattern.
"A thousand thoughts are going through my head right now," Wiggins said. "It's a dream come true."
Bennett was injured last summer, went into the season out of shape and made no impact, one of the reasons the Cavs were back in this spot again.
But Wiggins seems a much more ready product after averaging a Kansas freshman-record 17.1 points per game. He might have ended up as the top pick anyway, but he became the best option for the Cavs when Embiid suffered a stress fracture in his right foot shortly before the draft.
After making Canada the only country besides the U.S. to have consecutive No. 1 picks, Wiggins slipped on a maroon Cleveland hat, hugged his supporters and went on stage to shake hands with commissioner Adam Silver, who was calling the first round for the first time since replacing David Stern.
Cleveland Browns rookie quarterback Johnny Manziel took to Twitter on Thursday night to welcome Wiggins:
A WIGGINS!!! Welcome to the city my brother and congratulations @22wiggins #CavsSZN
- Johnny Manziel (@JManziel2) June 27, 2014
Milwaukee followed with another freshman, Duke forward Jabari Parker, who on Wednesday disputed that he was out of shape for his workout with Cleveland and performed poorly. Some consider him the more NBA-ready player after an All-America season for the Blue Devils, and getting to play in Milwaukee puts him near his family in Chicago.
"I'm just very optimistic," Parker said. "If it was 1, 2, put me at 60, just getting that opportunity, getting that chance of being in the NBA."
Embiid went third to Philadelphia, drawing loud cheers from the many red-and-blue dressed 76ers fans who made the trip to Barclays Center in Brooklyn, as well as from Philadelphia guard Michael Carter-Williams, last season's rookie of the year, who was sitting on the arena floor level.
The 76ers had two top-10 picks and could afford to take a chance on Embiid, the big man who might have ended up the top prize despite his lone season at Kansas ending early because of a bad back. But once the foot injury popped up during workouts, leaving his NBA debut uncertain after surgery, the two teams at the top passed.
"He worked so hard," Wiggins said. "He didn't let nothing get to him. He always stayed motivated. So I'm just proud. It's a proud moment for Kansas."
It was considered a deep draft, with top-level talent stretching toward the bottom of the lottery and perhaps beyond. Arizona forward Aaron Gordon went fourth to Orlando, which also had two picks in the lottery, followed by Australian guard Dante Exum to Utah.
Then came two teams not used to picking so high: The Boston Celtics took Oklahoma State guard Marcus Smart, with the rival Los Angeles Lakers following at No. 7 with Kentucky forward Julius Randle.
The highlight of the night came just after the lottery, when Silver welcomed Baylor's Isaiah Austin to the stage for an emotional tribute. Austin had to end his playing career after being diagnosed with Marfan syndrome, a rare genetic disorder that affects the heart.
Wearing a blue hat with the NBA logo, Austin rose for a standing ovation after Silver announced that "The NBA selects Isaiah Austin."
There were 10 international players in the first round, tied for the second-most in draft history. It ended with NBA champion San Antonio taking UCLA's Kyle Anderson.
The Spurs routed LeBron James and the Miami Heat in five games in the NBA Finals, and James informed Miami on Tuesday that he would opt out of the final two years of his contract. He could stay with a stronger team in South Florida or go somewhere else -- perhaps with Carmelo Anthony -- for another title shot.
Just don't ignore the new kids.
"You got Doug McDermott scoring 3,000 points. Shoot, you got Julius Randle went to the national championship. Shabazz Napier won two national championships," Parker said. "I mean, we're all good. We're all great players."
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

GAINESVILLE, Fla. -- Florida guard Michael Frazier II made it official Friday: He's leaving school early and entering the NBA draft.
Frazier thanked coaches, teammates and fans on his Twitter page and added that he has signed with agent Matt Ramker of ASM Sports.
Frazier says he "will never forget my time in Gainesville and look forward to returning each summer to complete my degree." Frazier is expected to go through the draft process without considering a return to Florida.
A two-year starter and one of the top 3-point shooters in the Southeastern Conference, Frazier was second on the team in scoring this season. He averaged 12.1 points and made 57 of 150 shots (38 percent) from behind the arc. He also averaged 4.1 rebounds and shot 87 percent from the free throw line.

Insider offers a 360-degree look at R.J. Hunter from experts Kevin Pelton (analytics), Fran Fraschilla (scouting) and Chad Ford (NBA front offices).
Georgia State junior guard R.J. Hunter is heading to the NBA, he confirmed to ESPN.
Hunter played for his father, Ron, the past three seasons and helped lead the Panthers to the NCAA tournament this past season.
"The plan was always for me to be a four-year guy. For all this to happen, it's almost like a dream," he said.
"I felt like the time was right. I did everything possible I wanted to do. The way it ended with the NCAA tournament was a storybook. It was like it happened for a reason."
Hunter said based on the information he has received, he likely will be drafted somewhere from the No. 15 pick to No. 35.
"The next time he plays a game, I can go cheer," the elder Hunter said.
A news conference is expected Tuesday.
The 6-foot-5 Hunter averaged 19.7 points, 4.6 rebounds and 3.6 assists this past season and is considered a terrific long-range shooter despite shooting 31 percent from beyond the arc this season.
Hunter hit the game-winning shot to beat Baylor in Georgia State's opening game of the NCAA tournament. He finished with 20 points in its loss to Xavier in the round of 32, but says Georgia State has the talent to build on this year's success.
"They don't need me here," Hunter said. "Seriously. There are some good players here."
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

LAWRENCE, Kan. -- Kansas forward Cliff Alexander said Tuesday he is foregoing his three remaining years of eligibility and will enter the NBA draft.
"I talked this over with my mom and dad and we decided the timing was right for me to enter the NBA draft," Alexander said in a statement. "Kansas has been a great experience."
On Feb. 28, Alexander was forced to miss the final few weeks of the season due to an investigation into improper benefits.
"This should come as no surprise to anybody," Kansas coach Bill Self said in a statement. "Cliff had a very interesting and educational year. He was a major contributor to our team from the beginning of the season.
"He worked his way into the starting lineup and has had to deal with an off-the-court issue with the NCAA that made him ineligible for the last eight games of our season."
Alexander averaged 7.1 points and 5.3 rebounds per game for the Jayhawks, who finished 27-9 and lost to Wichita State in the NCAA Tournament.
Alexander was considered a potential lottery pick entering the season, but multiple NBA executives told ESPN that he is likely to be selected late in the first round.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

Duke freshman Jahlil Okafor will enter the NBA draft, coach Mike Krzyzewski said Thursday in a news release.
Okafor joins Corey Maggette (1999), Luol Deng (2004), Kyrie Irving (2011), Austin Rivers (2012) and Jabari Parker (2014) as Blue Devils who entered the draft after their freshman seasons. Each was selected among the first 13 players in their drafts, with Irving going No. 1 in 2011.
Chad Ford, Kevin Pelton and Fran Fraschilla offer a 360-degree look at Duke big man Jahlil Okafor and why his one weakness is on defense.
Two of Okafor's classmates -- Justise Winslow and Tyus Jones, the most outstanding player at the Final Four -- also are serious candidates to jump to the pros.
"What a great decision," Krzyzewski said in the release. "This is a tremendous opportunity for Jahlil, and he has earned it."
Okafor led Duke (35-4) to its fifth national championship, a 68-63 victory over Wisconsin in Indianapolis on Monday night. Okafor had told reporters Wednesday that "it would kind of suck" to only get to play a few months alongside longtime friend Jones, adding that whatever he decided would have to be a "business decision."
Mock Draft 4.0: Who's No.1? Here's what Chad Ford thinks. Story 
Big Board: Chad Ford offers his top 30 draft prospects. Story 
Who's In/Out? Who's in or out of the draft? Includes all 360 draft profiles. Story 
360 profile: Karl-Anthony Towns Why he will be the No. 1 pick in the draft. Story 
360 profile: Jahlil Okafor Is his defense holding him back for the top slot? Story 
Okafor was Duke's 16th first-team All-American and the Blue Devils' second freshman All-American in as many years, with Parker chosen last season. Okafor would be just the seventh Duke player 6-foot-10 or taller under Krzyzewski to be drafted in the first round and the first Duke player 6-10 or taller to leave school early and be drafted in the first round.
"Obviously, he has done an incredible job here at Duke and he will always be a part of our Duke basketball family," Krzyzewski said. "We could not be happier for he and his family."
Okafor, who averaged 17.3 points and 8.5 rebounds while shooting 66 percent, was the first freshman in Atlantic Coast Conference history to be named league player of the year.
"As early as I can remember, I've fantasized and dreamed of the day that I could play professional basketball," Okafor said in the statement. " I recall at the age of 6, promising my mom and dad that when I made it to the NBA I would buy them both different colored trucks. They would laugh with me in support and encouraged me to dream big and work hard.
"With that being said and now at the age of 19, my dream is still alive."
Information from The Associated Press and ESPN's Stats & Information was used in this report.

Arkansas sophomore Bobby Portis is heading to the NBA.
The long and skilled 6-foot-11 forward, who averaged 17.5 points and 8.9 rebounds per game, tweeted the news on Tuesday.
pic.twitter.com/QS7a4VS8Tj
According to several NBA executives, Portis is considered a lock first-rounder and could be selected late in the lottery. Portis was No. 16 on ESPN NBA Insider Chad Ford's most recent big board.
Chad Ford, Kevin Pelton and Fran Fraschilla breakdown the long-term potential of forward Bobby Portis.
Arkansas, which lost in the round of 32 to North Carolina in the NCAA tournament, will likely take a significant hit next season without Portis, who led the team in scoring and rebounding. Athletic Razorbacks wing Michael Qualls still hasn't made a decision whether he will join Portis in declaring or whether he will return to Fayetteville.
Arkansas was 27-9 last season and 13-5 in SEC play.

Ohio State freshman D'Angelo Russell has decided to go pro, declaring for the NBA draft Wednesday.
"This was a hard decision because I knew I could come back and play with my teammates who I love, and to be coached by coach Thad Matta again would have been awesome, but at the same time I wanted to pursue my dream of playing in the NBA," Russell told ESPN.com on Wednesday. "I know what I am capable of and the sky's the limit with effort. I know I have a lot to work on."
Russell is a 6-foot-5 combo guard who excels both as a playmaker and as a scoring threat. He produced 19.7 points, 5.7 rebounds and 5.0 assists per game as a freshman for the Buckeyes.
Just one year after entering college basketball as the No. 13 overall player in the ESPN 100, Russell is bound for the pros.
Former Ohio State PG D'Angelo Russell is NBA-ready when it comes to his 3-point shooting and court awareness, but he may not be athletic enough to keep up with NBA guards.
"You never know when this opportunity comes," he told ESPN.com. "I believe I am ready because my approach was to unpack my bags, get committed to winning and listening to the coaches -- as opposed to coming in and saying 'I am a pro' and trying to leave. I wasn't trying to get in and out at Ohio State."
Russell is one of the more versatile and dangerous guards in the nation. According to one NBA GM, his draft stock rose during the season, and he could land in the lottery.
Mock Draft 4.0: Who's No.1? Here's what Chad Ford thinks. Story 
Big Board: Chad Ford offers his top 30 draft prospects. Story 
Who's In/Out? Who's in or out of the draft? Includes all 360 draft profiles. Story 
360 profile: Karl-Anthony Towns Why he will be the No. 1 pick in the draft. Story 
360 profile: Jahlil Okafor Is his defense holding him back for the top slot? Story 
"When we went to see him in the fall we thought he was a good player," the GM said. "When we went to the nonconference games, we thought he was very good and a first-round pick. When we went back to Big Ten games there was no doubt he was a high lottery pick."
Russell said he will miss Ohio State and expressed gratitude for his time in Columbus.
"It's a great place, the fan base is crazy for basketball ... hopefully it will open doors down the road after basketball," he said. "The staff did a great job of challenging me from the X's and O's [standpoint], strengthening my body, and academically I got named as one of two players as a scholar-athlete on our team."

NEW YORK -- The Minnesota Timberwolves lost 66 games during the 2014-15 season.
But they won big Tuesday night.
The Wolves landed the first pick of the 2015 NBA draft in the league's annual lottery. Minnesota had an NBA-high 25 percent chance of landing the top pick based on its last-place finish in the leaguewide standings.
Welcome to the ESPN.com NBA Draft Machine! Now is your chance to be like a big-time NBA exec. Make your selections now.
Phil Jackson and the Knicks got what they deserved in the NBA draft lottery.
Thunder GM Sam Presti likes the depth in this draft class, but with an already crowded roster, he's not ruling out any scenario with their pick.
The Los Angeles Lakers landed the second pick, with the Philadelphia 76ers drawing the third choice, the New York Knicks the fourth and the Orlando Magic the fifth.
The top draft-eligible players include Kentucky big man Karl-Anthony Towns, Duke center Jahlil Okafor, Ohio State point guard D'Angelo Russell and Emmanuel Mudiay, a 19-year-old guard who played professionally in China this season.
The NBA draft will be held at the Barclays Center, home of the Brooklyn Nets, on June 25.
Minnesota president and coach Flip Saunders said Tuesday's lottery was a "very emotional" day for the franchise and its fans. He said that the team will consider all of its options with the pick.
"Having the No. 1 pick gives us the opportunity to really evaluate everybody and really see what direction we want to go," Saunders said. "At this point, we're open. We'll pick the best player for us on June 25."
Added Timberwolves owner Glen Taylor: "I'm just really happy for the Minnesota fans because they've been so loyal and they've been so patient with us and this has been such a difficult year."
It is the first time Minnesota has ever had the No. 1 pick, though the team has Andrew Wiggins on its roster, who was the top pick in last year's draft. The Wolves acquired Wiggins along with 2013 No. 1 overall pick Anthony Bennett before the start of the season as part of a trade with the Cleveland Cavaliers.
If the Wolves keep the pick and do not trade the player, they would be the first team in league history to have three straight No. 1 picks on their roster, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.
Taylor said trading the pick is "highly unlikely" but "part of the discussion."
This marked the first time since 2004 the team with the best shot to win the lottery came away with the top selection. The Magic selected Dwight Howard with that pick in 2004.
An even bigger rarity is seeing the Lakers and Knicks both picking in the top five in the same year. In the common draft era (since 1966), the only instance in which both the Lakers and Knicks picked in the top five came in 1979. The Lakers selected Magic Johnson first overall and the Knicks selected Bill Cartwright third overall.
The Lakers are picking in the lottery for just the fourth time ever, but the second time in two seasons. Last year they selected Julius Randle with the No. 7 overall pick. Randle suffered a broken leg in the first game of the regular season and did not return to the court.
Lakers star Kobe Bryant reacted to the team's lottery fate on Twitter.
We played like crap all season so it's only right we get the #2 pick HA #lakerluck #goodday
Coach Byron Scott, who represented the team at the lottery, said earning the No. 2 pick was "a little bit of a reward" after a difficult season.
"Obviously this is a step in the right direction for our franchise and the process of being back where we should be in the next year or so," Scott said. "I can't say it's a way to announce that we're back. I think we're on the right track."
Philadelphia had the biggest chance to make a splash Tuesday night as they had the potential to walk away with the Nos. 1, 6 and 11 picks based on protected picks acquired in earlier trades involving the Lakers and Heat. Instead of that best-case scenario, the Sixers got the No. 3 pick they were in line for in having the league's third-worst record at 18-64.
The Knicks were the big loser among the top four teams, as they possessed the second-highest chance of getting the top pick at 19.9 percent, but they slid to the No. 4 spot.
New York has had bad luck overall when it comes to drafting out of the lottery. The Knicks have not had a lottery pick who turned into an All-Star since Patrick Ewing, who was taken with the top pick in the 1985 draft.
Knicks general manager Steve Mills said he was "disappointed" about falling to fourth but that it wasn't a setback "at all." He added the Knicks would consider all of their options, including trading the pick for a veteran or multiple first-round picks.
"I think we're going to be open to a lot of things," Mills said. "We know we can get a good player at this pick. We're also going to be open to talking to teams and looking at different options."

Former Arkansas forward Michael Qualls suffered a torn ACL in a workout with the Phoenix Suns this past Thursday, multiple sources confirmed to ESPN.
"It was a freak injury," a source told ESPN. "It didn't look that bad."
Qualls went up in the air to contest a shot, and appeared to land awkwardly, the source told ESPN. He flew from Phoenix to Los Angeles for a workout with the Lakers and wasn't able to participate, and then had an MRI in Denver on Sunday which confirmed the extent of the injury.
The injury was first reported by DraftExpress.
Qualls is considered one of the top athletes in the draft, and had 91 dunks in his college career with the Razorbacks. He averaged 15.9 points and decided to bypass his senior season in Arkansas.
Qualls suffered a quad injury at the NBA Combine in Chicago last month and had been unable to work out for teams. His first workout was the one in Phoenix in which he suffered the knee injury -- which will likely keep him out for next season.
Multiple NBA executives told ESPN that Qualls would have been drafted in the second round or gone undrafted. He could still be taken late in the second round.

MINNEAPOLIS --  Kentucky big man Karl-Anthony Towns worked out for the Minnesota Timberwolves on Saturday, less than a week before the Wolves pick first in the NBA draft.
Towns arrived in the Twin Cities on Friday night. He took a tour of the Wolves' new $25 million practice facility and dined with owner Glen Taylor, President Flip Saunders and several other team officials.
Towns is considered the heavy favorite to be chosen No. 1 overall on Thursday night, and the Wolves are the only team he has worked out for during the pre-draft process.
The visit wrapped up a busy week for the Wolves, who also hosted Duke center Jahlil Okafor, Ohio State guard D'Angelo Russell and point guard Emmanuel Mudiay, who played in China last season, as they mull their options.

NEW YORK -- The Minnesota Timberwolves are hoping big man Karl-Anthony Towns lives up to all the hype.
The Timberwolves selected the 6-foot-11 freshman sensation out of Kentucky with the No. 1 pick in the 2015 NBA draft on Thursday night at Barclays Center in Brooklyn.
Towns, 19, who averaged 10.3 points and 6.7 rebounds in 21.1 minutes per game in his only season with the Wildcats, was widely believed to be the top overall selection by experts heading into the draft.
"When [commissioner] Adam Silver came out, I saw him, and he said, 'With the No. 1 pick ...'[my heart] was racing," Towns said. "I told Coach Cal [John Calipari] before when he first came out that I was trying to drink water and I was shaking uncontrollably, and I told him, 'Coach, don't give me the ball right now for the last-second shot. I wouldn't make it.' I was just shocked and just extremely happy that I was able to give my parents something they can remember for the rest of their lives."
The New Jersey native is considered a highly skilled two-way threat who can affect games on both ends of the floor.
"It really was a no-brainer,'' Timberwolves president and coach Flip Saunders said of the decision to draft Towns.
The Timberwolves, who are in rebuilding mode, hope that Towns and last year's No. 1 pick, Andrew Wiggins, can be a formidable duo for years to come. Minnesota acquired Wiggins in the blockbuster trade that sent Kevin Love to Cleveland last summer.
Wiggins weighed in on the pick on Twitter.
Welcome to the Family @KarlTowns !
Two decades ago, the Timberwolves selected Kevin Garnett fifth in the draft, and he turned into a superstar. Assuming Garnett -- who was traded back to Minnesota in February -- returns for his 21st season, he will be tasked with mentoring Towns.
"I'm just so blessed to be in this position," said Towns, who added that his main goal in the upcoming season will be helping lead the Timberwolves to the playoffs. "It just means the world to me."
Chad Ford offers a quick digest of winners and losers of the 2015 NBA draft.
The Timberwolves, Lakers and 76ers made splashes with the first three selections. How did they -- and the rest of the league -- do Thursday? Our NBA writers assess every team's draft picks.
A collection of images from in and around Barclays Center during the 2015 NBA draft
It was Kentucky's third No. 1 pick in the past six years, joining Anthony Davis in 2012 and John Wall in 2010.
It didn't take long for the first surprise of the draft, as the Los Angeles Lakers passed on selecting Duke freshman center Jahlil Okafor, instead taking Ohio State freshman point guard D'Angelo Russell with the No. 2 overall pick.
"I didn't know at all," Russell said on whether he knew the Lakers would select him. "I didn't know at all, man. I'm still in shock."
Okafor went No. 3 overall to the Philadelphia 76ers, where he will be paired with second-year pro Nerlens Noel in the frontcourt. Big man Joel Embiid, who had to sit out his rookie season because of injury, recently suffered a setback in his return from a broken ankle, and his return is unknown.
Embiid quickly welcomed Okafor on Twitter.
Aye my boy is in philly with me #AfricanConnection
Okafor was asked how the Sixers would handle having three young bigs in terms of playing time and shots. "I don't know. It's not my job to figure out," he replied. "I'll just go there and work as hard as I can."
Okafor also said of falling to No. 3: "I can't be disappointed. I'm in the NBA living my dream."
Four Kentucky players were drafted in the lottery Thursday night, tied for the most since the first year the lottery was introduced in 1985.
Boos rained down from the rafters in Brooklyn as New York Knicks fans showed their displeasure over their team selecting Latvian big man Kristaps Porzingis with the No. 4 overall pick.
"Lot of fans weren't happy they drafted me," Porzingis said. "I have to do everything in my hands to turn those booing fans into clapping fans. I was happy about it. Want to be part of this organization. The fans are harsh sometimes. That's how it is in New York, and I'm ready for it."
Croatian forward Mario Hezonja was selected by the Orlando Magic, rounding out the top five. It was just the third time two international players were selected in the top five, according to ESPN Stats & Information. It also happened in 2002 and 2011.
Hezonja, 20, has spent the past three years playing for Spain's FC Barcelona and in the Euroleague. Magic general manager Rob Hennigan said he expects Hezonja to be available to play for the 2015-16 season and has no concerns about the buyout from FC Barcelona.
Kentucky junior big man Willie Cauley-Stein was the second Wildcat to come off the board when he was taken sixth by the Sacramento Kings.
Point guard Emmanuel Mudiay, who played all of last season in China during his one-and-done year, went seventh to the Denver Nuggets.
Arizona freshman forward Stanley Johnson was snatched up by the Detroit Pistons at No. 8. Wisconsin senior Frank Kaminsky, the unanimous men's national college player of the year, was drafted at No. 9 by the Charlotte Hornets.
Duke freshman Justise Winslow, who was projected to go higher, surprisingly fell to No. 10, where the Miami Heat were happy to take him.
Myles Turner (Texas) went to the Indiana Pacers at No. 11, and Kentucky products Trey Lyles and Devin Booker went No. 12 and No. 13 to the Utah Jazz and Phoenix Suns, respectively.
"Obviously, it's just a good program," Cauley-Stein said of Kentucky. "It shows that a bunch of young kids can come together and still win and at the end of the day still get drafted. There's a lot of scrutiny on Coach Cal that he can't take young guys and turn them into a team and make them win and still be there for each other and get drafted and reach their dreams."
Over Calipari's first six seasons with Kentucky, 25 of 47 players have been drafted, including a record-tying four players in the lottery Thursday night.
"Results matter, and we want to win," said Calipari, who was sitting with Towns at the draft. "But not at the expense of these kids."
The draft-host Brooklyn Nets made waves late in the draft by agreeing to send Mason Plumlee and the rights to No. 41 pick Pat Connaughton to the Portland Trail Blazers for Steve Blake and the rights to No. 23 pick Rondae Hollis-Jefferson.
In other draft-night trade news, the Milwaukee Bucks agreed to a deal to send No. 46 pick Norman Powell and a protected 2017 first-round pick to the Toronto Raptors for veteran guard Greivis Vasquez.
The Atlanta Hawks had the 15th pick because of a swap of first-round picks with the Brooklyn Nets resulting from the Joe Johnson trade in 2012. They selected Kansas freshman forward Kelly Oubre but sent his rights to the Washington Wizards for the No. 19 pick and two future second-round picks. The Hawks then selected guard Jerian Grant at No. 19 and agreed to send his draft rights to the New York Knicks for Tim Hardaway Jr.
In another deal, the Cleveland Cavaliers agreed to send the draft rights to Duke guard Tyus Jones to the Minnesota Timberwolves for picks No. 31 (Cedi Osman) and 36 (Rakeem Christmas) and a 2019 second-round pick.
According to ESPN Stats & Information, 13 freshmen were selected in the first round this year, more than the total number of freshmen selected in all rounds combined in any previous draft (since the common draft era began in 1966). Five players who played in this year's NCAA title game were selected in the first round (Okafor, Kaminsky, Winslow, Sam Dekker, Jones), tied for third-most in the common draft era.
Information from ESPN's Darren Rovell and The Associated Press was used in this report.

NEW YORK -- The Minnesota Timberwolves lost 66 games during the 2014-15 season.
But they won big Tuesday night.
The Wolves landed the first pick of the 2015 NBA draft in the league's annual lottery. Minnesota had an NBA-high 25 percent chance of landing the top pick based on its last-place finish in the leaguewide standings.
Welcome to the ESPN.com NBA Draft Machine! Now is your chance to be like a big-time NBA exec. Make your selections now.
Phil Jackson and the Knicks got what they deserved in the NBA draft lottery.
Thunder GM Sam Presti likes the depth in this draft class, but with an already crowded roster, he's not ruling out any scenario with their pick.
The Los Angeles Lakers landed the second pick, with the Philadelphia 76ers drawing the third choice, the New York Knicks the fourth and the Orlando Magic the fifth.
The top draft-eligible players include Kentucky big man Karl-Anthony Towns, Duke center Jahlil Okafor, Ohio State point guard D'Angelo Russell and Emmanuel Mudiay, a 19-year-old guard who played professionally in China this season.
The NBA draft will be held at the Barclays Center, home of the Brooklyn Nets, on June 25.
Minnesota president and coach Flip Saunders said Tuesday's lottery was a "very emotional" day for the franchise and its fans. He said that the team will consider all of its options with the pick.
"Having the No. 1 pick gives us the opportunity to really evaluate everybody and really see what direction we want to go," Saunders said. "At this point, we're open. We'll pick the best player for us on June 25."
Added Timberwolves owner Glen Taylor: "I'm just really happy for the Minnesota fans because they've been so loyal and they've been so patient with us and this has been such a difficult year."
It is the first time Minnesota has ever had the No. 1 pick, though the team has Andrew Wiggins on its roster, who was the top pick in last year's draft. The Wolves acquired Wiggins along with 2013 No. 1 overall pick Anthony Bennett before the start of the season as part of a trade with the Cleveland Cavaliers.
If the Wolves keep the pick and do not trade the player, they would be the first team in league history to have three straight No. 1 picks on their roster, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.
Taylor said trading the pick is "highly unlikely" but "part of the discussion."
This marked the first time since 2004 the team with the best shot to win the lottery came away with the top selection. The Magic selected Dwight Howard with that pick in 2004.
An even bigger rarity is seeing the Lakers and Knicks both picking in the top five in the same year. In the common draft era (since 1966), the only instance in which both the Lakers and Knicks picked in the top five came in 1979. The Lakers selected Magic Johnson first overall and the Knicks selected Bill Cartwright third overall.
The Lakers are picking in the lottery for just the fourth time ever, but the second time in two seasons. Last year they selected Julius Randle with the No. 7 overall pick. Randle suffered a broken leg in the first game of the regular season and did not return to the court.
Lakers star Kobe Bryant reacted to the team's lottery fate on Twitter.
We played like crap all season so it's only right we get the #2 pick HA #lakerluck #goodday
Coach Byron Scott, who represented the team at the lottery, said earning the No. 2 pick was "a little bit of a reward" after a difficult season.
"Obviously this is a step in the right direction for our franchise and the process of being back where we should be in the next year or so," Scott said. "I can't say it's a way to announce that we're back. I think we're on the right track."
Philadelphia had the biggest chance to make a splash Tuesday night as they had the potential to walk away with the Nos. 1, 6 and 11 picks based on protected picks acquired in earlier trades involving the Lakers and Heat. Instead of that best-case scenario, the Sixers got the No. 3 pick they were in line for in having the league's third-worst record at 18-64.
The Knicks were the big loser among the top four teams, as they possessed the second-highest chance of getting the top pick at 19.9 percent, but they slid to the No. 4 spot.
New York has had bad luck overall when it comes to drafting out of the lottery. The Knicks have not had a lottery pick who turned into an All-Star since Patrick Ewing, who was taken with the top pick in the 1985 draft.
Knicks general manager Steve Mills said he was "disappointed" about falling to fourth but that it wasn't a setback "at all." He added the Knicks would consider all of their options, including trading the pick for a veteran or multiple first-round picks.
"I think we're going to be open to a lot of things," Mills said. "We know we can get a good player at this pick. We're also going to be open to talking to teams and looking at different options."

After three years of poor play, the (ping-pong) ball finally falls Philadelphia's way, and head coach Brett Brown is just as excited as the city. (0:34)
NEW YORK -- After losing a total of 199 games over the past three seasons, the Philadelphia 76ers finally were rewarded for their rebuilding/tanking plan.
With head coach Brett Brown representing the team, the Sixers landed the first overall pick in Tuesday night's NBA draft lottery and the right to choose either LSU freshman forward Ben Simmons or Duke freshman forward Brandon Ingram, considered to be the top two prospects in the draft.
"The city has endured a lot over the past three seasons," Brown said after the Sixers finished ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers and Boston Celtics in the top three. "I felt like we were doing the right things all along the way. We were never skipping steps. We put in good days. Our process was questioned. At times fair enough."
Who are the Sixers, Lakers and Celtics likely to draft now that the order is set? Chad Ford gives his first-round mock draft following the lottery.
The Lakers won the No. 2 pick in the draft lottery, but trade rumors could pick up quickly. Should they deal the pick? Can they get a superstar in return?
Getting the No. 3 pick wasn't what the Boston Celtics had hoped for on Tuesday, but it can help get them where they want to go.
Brown said the Sixers have not decided yet who they will pick to add to a young roster that already includes Jahlil Okafor and Joel Embiid, who were selected third overall in each of the past two seasons.
Entering the lottery, Philadelphia had a 26.9 percent chance of landing the No. 1 pick (their own 25 percent chance, plus Sacramento's 1.9 percent chance, since the 76ers had the right to swap picks with the Kings from a previous trade.)
"I never felt jinxed," Brown said of the Sixers picking third overall the past two years and averaging 66 losses a season over the past three years. "I truly believed in what we were doing, and in many ways, I feel like we have been rewarded for the patience and perseverance, especially the city's perseverance."
No team moved up in the lottery, but the Lakers left New York City probably feeling a bit like lottery winners too. After finishing a dreadful 17-65, the Lakers still were in danger of having to surrender their first-round pick to Philadelphia if it landed outside the top three, due to the protections negotiated into the 2012 Steve Nash trade.
The worst-case scenario did not happen, and Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak can start the post-Kobe Bryant era with perhaps either Ingram or Simmons, depending on what the Sixers do.
"To have a season like we had and not have something to show for it is not the way we wanted it to go," said Kupchak, who drafted D'Angelo Russell with the second overall pick last year. "Have we gotten used to having Kobe around? Yeah ... not having Kobe around, that's an adjustment. Absolutely. It's been a 20-year run."
"Trust me, everybody up there, even if they don't have a contingency like we did, is very nervous," Kupchak said in describing anxious moments on stage during the lottery. "What made our situation unique is we ended up No. 2 [but if we] fall to 4 or 5 [we] lose the pick. That adds to the drama that really, at this stage in my life, is unnecessary."
There was some drama hours before the lottery began, when former Sixers All-Star center Dikembe Mutombo tweeted congratulations to the club for winning the first overall pick. A Sixers employee emailed Mutombo and asked other former players to tweet support for the team in the event they did win the first overall pick.
Mutombo cut and paste a congratulations message and accidentally tweeted it out several hours before the lottery was determined, which created a stir on social media.
"I was trying to congratulate the Sixers if they win the draft," Mutombo said when reached by telephone after the lottery. "For some reason I made a mistake. I'm just laughing so hard about what people are saying [online]. It's funny."
"[People are] posting all these funny videos of me laughing in the All-Star Game, my reaction during the Dunk Contest," Mutombo added. "It's making me laugh. But I also want to make sure that people should not be thinking about anything negative [from the mistake]."
As Kupchak said, "Dikembe should go to Vegas tonight. That's what he should do."
The Boston Celtics were hoping to erase negative luck at the lottery after being haunted by the lottery ghosts of Tim Duncan and Len Bias in the past. The Celtics, who had never owned the first overall pick in the draft era, own three first-round picks, including the Brooklyn Nets' pick from the Paul Pierce-Kevin Garnett trade.
But the Nets' pick didn't move up, as Boston had hoped. Boston will instead hope for better luck in the future, when it can swap picks with Brooklyn next year while owning the Nets' first-rounder in 2018, along with Memphis' top-eight protected pick in 2019.
The Celtics, who own eight total picks in this draft, have only had a top-four pick four times in the common draft era, selecting Chauncey Billups (1997), Bias (1986), Kevin McHale (1980) and Dave Cowens (1970).
Boston had to be hoping to get a crack at Simmons or Ingram.
Ingram is a 6-foot-9 swingman who averaged 17.3 points and won Atlantic Coast Conference freshman of the year honors.
Simmons is a 6-foot-10 forward from Australia who was widely considered the top freshman in the country upon entering the 2015-16 college season. He was the only player to average more than 19 points, 11 rebounds and four assists this season.
"I coached Ben's father a long time ago," said Brown, who coached the Australian men's national team and was also head coach of the Sydney Kings of the Australian National Basketball League. "I've known Ben since he was born. I've known his family since the late '80s. Just having that knowledge of where he was raised and understanding the culture, I also lived 17 years in Australia."
"There are a lot of different connections to make me better informed how to help our organization make a calculated decision," Brown added of the Sixers, who recently hired Bryan Colangelo to replace Sam Hinkie as president of basketball operations. "[Ben Simmons] is an extremely talented man, and I think he comes from great stock with his family."
Brown has maintained an unshakable optimism and enthusiasm despite going 47-199 as Sixers coach. Now he could be coaching a franchise-altering star prospect next season.
"The pain that we all go through, the pain of losing is real," Brown said. "You can't camouflage it. This city has been incredibly patient and tolerant, choose whatever word that you want.
"I feel like this does maybe validate a little bit about some of the pain we have gone through."
The NBA draft is June 23 in New York.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.

The Minnesota Timberwolves selected Providence point guard Kris Dunn with the No. 5 overall pick of the 2016 NBA draft on Thursday night.
Player profile:
Age: 22 (junior)
Height/weight: 6-foot-4, 220 pounds
2015-16 stats: 16.4 PPG, 5.3 RPG, 6.2 APG
Chad Ford's Big Board ranking -- No. 3: "Dunn's athleticism, defensive ability and floor vision make him the favorite of teams that want an instant-impact point guard who can lock down other opponents and run a team." More (Insider)
Kevin Pelton's stats and scouting ranking -- No. 6: "Few prospects in this year's draft are more capable of contributing right away than Dunn, who has the highest 2016-17 projection of anyone in Ford's top 10." More (Insider)
Scouting report -- positives:
Versatile guard who can score from anywhere on the floor
Great size for his position
Scouting report -- negatives:
Needs to improve shot selection
Can be turnover prone
Read the full scouting report (Insider)
ESPN Analytics projection (within his first five seasons):
Chances he'll be an All-Star: 18 percent
Chances he'll be a starter: 21 percent
Chances he'll be a bench player: 34 percent
Chances he'll be a bust: 26 percent
More player projections  |  How our projection model works
More draft coverage:
Complete draft order, picks
More NBA draft coverage

Brandon Ingram speaks with Andy Katz about what it would be like to play for the Lakers, but knows there's a chance he might not end up in L.A. (1:46)
Barring a last-minute blockbuster trade offer, the Los Angeles Lakers intend to select Duke freshman Brandon Ingram with the second pick in the 2016 NBA draft Thursday night, league sources told ESPN.

From pingpong balls to the final pick, we've got the 2016 NBA draft covered. Draft 2016 
The Lakers spent three hours huddled with new coach Luke Walton on Tuesday night before signaling to multiple league sources that Ingram would be their choice if the Sixers select Ben Simmons with the No. 1 pick.
The 76ers have promised Simmons that he will be their pick at No. 1. The 76ers' promise was first reported by Cleveland.com on Tuesday and confirmed by ESPN.
Asked Wednesday whether he's been told by the Lakers they planned to pick him, Ingram said he hasn't "heard anything."
"I really don't know who is going to take me. I am in the blind. Whoever takes me, I'll be happy," he said.
Sources say Lakers officials believe Ingram is a great fit for the organization and a potential All-Star player down the road. His shooting and ability to defend multiple positions fit a huge need for them. Ingram has been ranked No. 2 on ESPN's Big Board since December and is widely considered the consensus No. 2 pick in the draft by rival general managers.
While the team carefully vetted several other prospects including Oklahoma's Buddy Hield and Providence's Kris Dunn, the feeling within the organization was the Ingram provided both the best fit and the most upside for the team.
With the Lakers' draft board coming into focus, sources held out a potential scenario in which Ingram didn't go No. 2 -- a last-minute blockbuster trade offer from a team offering a young but experienced All-Star in return.
The Lakers don't want to trade the pick and are bullish on Ingram. However, they would likely consider any chance to get a proven young All-Star now, according to sources. The team plans to be very aggressive in free agency in July, and a young All-Star-caliber veteran could help them lure other elite free agents.
ESPN's Ohm Youngmisuk contributed to this report.

With the second pick in the NBA draft, the Lakers take Brandon Ingram. (1:01)
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- The Los Angeles Lakers have long targeted Kevin Durant, believing their allure could pry the tall, long-armed scoring dynamo from the Oklahoma City Thunder during free agency this summer, helping fill the superstar void left after Kobe Bryant's recent retirement.
But after a franchise-worst three straight seasons spent missing the playoffs, after posting a franchise record for losses in three straight years, and after three straight offseasons in which all their top free-agent targets have turned down the Lakers, the team's hopes of obtaining Durant have seemed like little more than a pipe dream.
As of Thursday, though, the Lakers have now obtained a player who's compared to Durant, at least in terms of build, size and outside shooting. Los Angeles selected Duke freshman Brandon Ingram with the No. 2 overall pick in the 2016 NBA draft.
The 6-foot-9, 190-pound Ingram boasts a 7-foot-3 wingspan and a 9-foot-2 standing reach and is accurate from long range (41 percent from 3-point range at Duke), hence the parallels to Durant.
But, as was the case when Durant was drafted out of Texas in 2007, there are concerns about Ingram's frail frame. Ingram weighed 169 pounds the summer before his freshman year at Duke but bulked up to 190 by the fall.
"Obviously, it's unfair," Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak said of comparisons between Durant and Ingram. "I can see why people would make that comparison. I think they're both gifted players. If you looked at Kevin in college as a freshman, the similarities are striking in terms of size and body build and body type. But beyond that, Brandon has a long, long way to go.
"Having said that, we're ecstatic to have him."
Ivica Zubac, a 7-foot-1, 265-pound center from Croatia, has drawn comparisons to Memphis Grizzlies big man Marc Gasol.
We highlight six teams that had a particularly good evening or an especially disappointing result in the 2016 NBA draft. Chad Ford gives his early ratings.
After a crazy night of surprising picks and big trades, Chad Ford hands out his draft grades for all 30 teams. Who came out best, and who flunked the draft?
After his private, pre-draft workout with the Lakers in June, Ingram, who will be 19 when the 2016-17 NBA season begins, told reporters that he plans to "eat everything I can" and that he's confident his body will mature and fill out in time.
"I don't think it bothers me at all, actually," Ingram said in a conference call with Los Angeles media after being drafted. "I think it just gives me motivation. It shows these guys that the skinny part doesn't matter. It got me here today. I was the No. 2 pick, of course. Being skinny didn't mean nothing when I was battling each and every guy each and every night."
Rookie Lakers head coach Luke Walton, who was recently an assistant with the Golden State Warriors, said he's not concerned about Ingram's weight.
"He's young. He'll naturally get stronger," Walton said. "Talking to some of the coaches that were here when he came and did his workout, even though he's skinny, he had strength to him in the individual workout that he did.
"He's coming in as a young kid in a man's league. Obviously we're going to expect him to have an impact for us this season, but we'll kind of take that as it goes."
Kupchak said that along with working out Ingram, members of the Lakers' brass took him to a pair of dinners, and during the second dinner, several young Lakers players joined, including guards D'Angelo Russell and Jordan Clarkson, swingman Anthony Brown, and forwards Julius Randle and Larry Nance Jr.
"They all got along well, so that was good," Kupchak said.
The Lakers needed shooting, one area where Brandon Ingram has a clear advantage over Ben Simmons. The Lakers ranked dead last in the NBA last season in FG pct on jump shots and struggled regardless of how open they were, ranking 29th in both contested and uncontested jumpers.
FG Pct on Jumpers -- Lakers Last Season
At Duke, Ingram averaged 17.3 points, 6.8 rebounds and 2.0 assists per game, proving to be a versatile defender and skilled passer. He totaled eight double-doubles and 11 20-point games, the third most by a Duke freshman, and was named the consensus ACC freshman of the year. He also became the second Duke player to record 80 3-pointers and 40 blocks in a season (Shane Battier in 2000-01).
"I guess if I had to pick one thing, it would be potential," Kupchak said of Ingram. "Now, we're not picking a player that hasn't played much and kind of came off the bench and you're kind of trying to project what he might turn into. He played at what some might say is a very established college basketball program. He played big minutes. He started in an excellent league with excellent competition.
"In that regard, there's been a lot that's already been proven, but we look at him and his age and his body type, his willingness to work and be coached. So we think the upside and the potential in him -- right now, there is no ceiling on him. But, to date, he's had a pretty good career in a pretty good conference for a one-year player."
When the Lakers landed the No. 2 overall pick at the draft lottery in late May, Kupchak pointed out how the Lakers needed help in their frontcourt, "whether it's a wing or a bigger [shooting guard]," and Ingram certainly fills that role.
With his mobility, Ingram would also seem to fit into the new up-tempo system that Walton said he wants to implement.
"His ability to make reads on the court defensively is one of the favorite things I've seen him do, whether that's switching onto different players or coming from the weak side and blocking shots," Walton said. "A lot of that is timing and it's tough to coach. Kids that are really good at it have a knack for doing that. We had a kid up in Golden State,Draymond [Green], who we didn't coach him [on] how to be such a phenomenal team defender. He just was, because he sees the game like that. It means that the player is pretty intelligent. I think that Brandon fits that mold."

From pingpong balls to the final pick, we've got the 2016 NBA draft covered. Draft 2016 
Said Ingram: "I know Coach Walton is a player's coach, and watching what he did with the Golden State Warriors, it was very amazing and great. I just want to come in and make a big impact."
Ingram joins a core of promising young players, including Russell, Clarkson, Randle and Nance Jr., all of whom are 24 years old or younger. Ingram figures to be the team's new starting small forward, the position Bryant held in his 20th and final season before retiring.
"We're excited," Kupchak said. "I think despite the fact that we're losing an icon that's been with us for 20 years, this is a new chapter going forward. We're going to miss Kobe to no end. I still look back on it, and it's hard for me to imagine that he's not going to be on our roster and not on the board in my office. Having said that, we have to move on."
Said Walton: "I'm not putting expectations on it. It is a young core. I think this now gives us seven players under contract, so there's a lot that still needs to be filled out, but to me, I'm putting the focus on how hard we're working, how the staff is helping improve them individually, how we're getting them to buy into the system and the culture that we're trying to create here. Those are things that I feel like if you focus on the wins will just start coming."
Ingram said he tuned in to Bryant's final season.
"I just love that he still had it," Ingram said. "Of course, that's Kobe Bryant. He took no nights off and had an amazing work ethic. I hope I can be like him some day."
Asked to name his favorite team, Ingram joked, "Of course, the Lakers." He then admitted that he loved the Seattle SuperSonics when they drafted Durant, then loved the Thunder. His favorite player, obviously, was Durant.
A native of Kinston, North Carolina, which has produced other NBA players such as Cedric Maxwell, Jerry Stackhouse and Reggie Bullock, Ingram won four consecutive high school state championships with the Kinston Vikings.
Ingram helped lead the Blue Devils to the Sweet 16 round of the NCAA tournament before falling to Oregon. Ingram scored 69 points in three NCAA tournament games.
"We got the player that I wanted in the draft," Walton said. "I don't know if he's the best or not, but he's the player that I wanted, for sure. What he has the potential of doing and what he can already do at his age with his length and skill set is very impressive and unique."
Walton said he had seen Ingram play during the tournament.
"You can tell pretty quickly when a kid is that special, what he can do on the basketball court," Walton said.
Kupchak said he's hopeful that they'll introduce Ingram to Los Angeles media in a week and then have him play on the Lakers' summer league team in Las Vegas in mid-July.
The Lakers received plenty of calls from other teams about the No. 2 pick, but, Kupchak said, "nothing piqued our interest."
Would they still have taken Ingram if they had the top overall pick? Kupchak said it was hard to say because Ben Simmons, who was drafted first overall by the Philadelphia 76ers, wouldn't work out for the Lakers.
However, Kupchak added, "Going into it, based on what we felt, we felt we'd be very lucky to get Brandon into this city and into this organization."

The Karl Malone I saw up close played in fewer games and scored fewer points than in any other of his 19 seasons, yet that was the time I came to respect him the most.
I didn't really know Malone until he left the Utah Jazz and came to the Los Angeles Lakers for that ill-fated run in 2003-04. In my mind, he brought with him the baggage of being the guy who led my favorite player into retirement a second time when he expressed fears of playing with the HIV-positive Magic Johnson. And Malone always seemed to criticize the younger players, the ones who were closer to my age than Malone's.
There's a danger in following sound bites and secondhand reports and thinking that gives you any indication of what a person is really about. I learned that from Malone. I wouldn't call it the hard way; I'd call it the easy way, given that he simplified the task of covering that star-studded and star-crossed team as best he could.
It was some experiment, bringing in Malone and Gary Payton in an attempt to return the Lakers to the top of the NBA after the San Antonio Spurs ended the Lakers' run of three consecutive championships in 2003. That meant two of the top eight active career scorers at the time were joining the already strained duo of Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal. And thrown into the mix were a pending sexual assault charge against Bryant, unresolved contract extension negotiations for O'Neal and coach Phil Jackson, and the possibility of Bryant's departure at the end of the season via an escape clause.
And somehow, in the midst of Payton's nonstop high-decibel commentary and O'Neal's mood swings and Bryant's isolation, Malone provided a measured sense of peace and stability. After the last game of the season, Rick Fox offered the highest praise possible for a member of that team when he said, "Karl is, in no way, as dysfunctional as the rest of us."
Malone constantly made himself available for the media, through the good days and the bad days.
Even though he had just arrived and didn't know the full backstory on the Kobe-Shaq feud that flared up again at the start of the season, he did his best to explain it. Malone never made excuses, never asked to be given an exception or a free pass.
Malone could speak with authority because he had done just about everything possible in the league. He had never missed more than two games in a season and had gone the full 82 10 times. He had scored more points than anyone other than Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. He was named the league's most valuable player twice. The only thing missing from his rsum was a championship, which was the reason he was in Los Angeles. He was willing to make the financial sacrifice, as his salary dropped from $19.3 million to the $1.5 million veteran exception, and even that represented a sacrifice within the sacrifice, as he volunteered to take the smaller amount so Payton could have the $4.9 million midlevel exception. So he had credibility and authority, serving as both a respected voice within the locker room and a spokesman for the team. It made him far more valuable than the 14.5 points he averaged, the only time other than his rookie season that he scored less than 20 points per game.
Even his work ethic had temporary effects on O'Neal. In a preseason game, O'Neal wanted to sit out but suited up when he saw Malone was going to play despite a nagging injury. He also forced O'Neal to get more aggressive on the boards because if O'Neal wasn't quick to the ball, Malone would surely snatch it. The 11.5 rebounds O'Neal averaged were the most among his final three seasons in L.A. and represented the last time he averaged more than 11 rebounds per game.
Malone quickly gained my respect, and I soon gained his trust. One day in March, he was talking to the media about his availability for the U.S. national team that summer when he dropped a hint that he might not even want to play basketball anymore after the season. The next time I got a chance to speak to him alone, I asked whether that meant he was considering retirement, and he said he was giving it serious thought. He still hadn't recovered from the sudden death of his mother at age 64 in the offseason, and the thought of achieving milestones such as the all-time scoring record didn't appeal to him if she couldn't be there to watch.
The next time he faced a group of reporters, I was curious to see whether he would stick with those sentiments or try to distance himself from it and say he wasn't really feeling that way. Athletes do it all the time when they get a bigger reaction than they intended from their initial, candid comments to an individual reporter. But Malone maintained his position and didn't claim he was misquoted. I thanked him for not selling me out. He quietly acknowledged it, then pondered it for a little while as I moved to the other side of the Lakers' locker room. My moment of doubt kept nagging at him.
"Did you really think I would sell you out?" he asked.
Now I felt bad, because he had taken my appreciation as an insult. I had a moment of doubt because I had seen so many others change course when that was the most convenient route. I hadn't viewed him as his own individual case.
Malone was far from the usual NBA player. He was more interested in casting a fishing rod than hitting the club, and if he ever did buy an iPod (I sincerely doubt it), it wouldn't be filled with hip-hop. He superstitiously wore the same pair of game socks throughout the season, and when they started to fray, he sewed them himself.
Unfortunately for Malone, it wasn't so easy to mend his body, the one that had held up in machinelike fashion for 18 seasons. He damaged a knee ligament when Phoenix's Scott Williams landed on him during a fluke play, and Malone missed half of the season. Then he injured the same ligament in the playoffs and wound up watching the end of the Lakers' shocking NBA Finals loss to the Detroit Pistons in street clothes.
He followed through on his plan to retire that summer, then any notion of rejoining the Lakers the next season was doused when Bryant angrily accused Malone of hitting on his wife at a Lakers game in December. Malone went back to Salt Lake City to announce his retirement, and until he was announced as a member of the newest Hall of Fame class this year, about the only time we've heard from him was when he used his logging company to help clear debris from the wake of Hurricane Katrina.
That sounded like something the guy I got to know in Los Angeles would do.

SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -- Larry Bird stopped just short of calling the Dream Team the best squad ever assembled.
With the talent standing behind him, he wouldn't get much argument if he had.
The members of the 1992 Olympic champions joined him on stage Friday as they were inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. Michael Jordan, Magic Johnson and the rest of the famed squad were Bird's teammates in his last competitive games, a powerful and popular group widely credited for the growth of international basketball.
"Pretty good way to go out, winning the gold medal," Bird said.
Fighting a bad back and nearing retirement, Bird had to be talked into playing in Barcelona by Johnson, his friend and a rival since their college days.
"I called your butt up and I said you're going to play, we need this thrill one more time," Johnson said.
Their predecessors from the 1960 Olympics, a group led by Oscar Robertson and Jerry West, also were enshrined during the ceremony at Symphony Hall. Dream Teamers Scottie Pippen and Karl Malone were inducted as individuals.
Pippen opened his acceptance speech by praising Jordan, his fellow six-time NBA champion from the Chicago Bulls for being "the best teammate."
"MJ, you have touched so many people's lives, but none quite like mine," Pippen said.
A little-known player from Central Arkansas when the Bulls got him in 1987, Pippen was the first player inducted. With Jordan standing nearby on stage as his presenter, Pippen said he would "cherish their relationship forever."
"Who knew that No. 23 would be here 23 years later presenting me to the Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame?" Pippen said.
The presenter does not speak, and Jordan also didn't speak when the Dream Team assembled on stage. His remarks last year during his enshrinement speech drew some criticism after he singled out individuals whose slights had provided him with motivation.
Malone struggled with his emotions throughout his speech, especially at the end when he recalled his mother, saying she had died seven years ago Friday.
"I'm here because of her," he said.
Malone also thanked late Utah Jazz owner Larry Miller for believing in him. Malone is a two-time MVP and second on the league's career scoring list, and said his success came from staying true to his Louisiana roots.
"I hope I did it the way my peers did it before me," Malone said. "I didn't do anything but try to play hard."
Earlier Friday, West said he believed his group of college players that won its eight games in Rome by 42.4 points per game was "the greatest amateur team that ever played."
West also talked about the difficult conditions they faced 50 years ago, when they were housed in dorms without air conditioning and had a per diem of $1 a day.
Bird seized on that to get the last word on the debate of which was the better team.
"I don't know who had the best team, but I know the team in 1960 was a hell of a lot tougher than we were," he said. "I couldn't imagine the '92 team getting in a covered wagon for eight days, going across the country, jumping in the Atlantic Ocean, swimming for six days, then walking 3,000 miles to the Coliseum in Rome for a dollar a day."
Cynthia Cooper, the first Hall of Famer from the WNBA, coach Bob Hurley of St. Anthony's High School in New Jersey, and Lakers owner Jerry Buss also were inducted. Dennis Johnson, former Baltimore Bullets star Gus Johnson and Brazilian Maciel "Ubiratan" Pereira were enshrined posthumously.
Dennis Johnson, who died in 2007, was a favorite teammate of Bird's and respected for his tenacious defensive play. His wife, Donna, cried during a morning press conference at the Hall of Fame as she tried to offer thanks for her husband's long-awaited induction.
The focus this year was on teams more than individuals. All the living players from the 1960 champions were in Springfield, including Hall of Famers Walt Bellamy and Jerry Lucas.
Robertson, a co-captain of the team along with West, agreed and urged all players to take part in the Olympic experience if they have the chance.
"I think that any time an athlete gets an opportunity to play for your country, he should accept it," Robertson said.
Charles Barkley, the leading scorer in Barcelona, might agree. He called the summer of 1992 one of the greatest times of his life, and pointed to the Dream Team's 10 individual Hall of Famers as proof of its greatness.
So were the team's eye-popping stats: 117.3 points per game, a victory margin of 43.8 per game. Still, Barkley said it wasn't quite that easy.
"That was probably one thing that we never got credit for. It's easy to sit there and say you're going to win every game by 40 or 50 points, but we went out and actually did it," he said Friday morning during the press conference. "We knew we were going to win the games, but to play at such a high level the entire time was incredible."

*Finals MVP stats reflect the entire postseason.
With the NBA trade deadline on Thursday, it's decision time for teams holding the rights to lottery picks -- and for teams that would like to acquire those rights.2016 NBA draftGet ready for Ben Simmons, Brandon Ingram and the 2016 draft, with analysis from Chad Ford and other ESPN experts.Mock draft | Big BoardVideo scouting reportsFord: Top 100 prospect rankingsWho's in, who's out of the draft?

Get ready for Ben Simmons, Brandon Ingram and the 2016 draft, with analysis from Chad Ford and other ESPN experts.
Mock draft | Big Board
Video scouting reports
Ford: Top 100 prospect rankings
Who's in, who's out of the draft?
             
Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors will be named the NBA's Most Valuable Player this season, and the voting might even be unanimous. On top of that, his team is likely to tie or break the 1995-96 Chicago Bulls' record for wins in the regular season.
But that doesn't necessarily mean he is the best player in the NBA.

The lottery results are in, and the Philadelphia 76ers are (finally) the big winners! That means it's time for Mock Draft 7.0.
A familiar name tops my statistics-based projections for the 2016 NBA Draft, but a surprising player is not far behind.
Marc Stein reacts to Tim Duncan's decision to retire and says the Spurs will never be the same without him. (1:55)
Perhaps the most remarkable statistic of Tim Duncan's Hall of Fame career, which ended when he announced his retirement Monday morning, was this: Duncan never won Defensive Player of the Year.
In fact, despite making the All-Defensive First or Second Team 15 times -- far and away the most since the NBA introduced the All-Defensive teams in 1968-69 -- Duncan never even finished second in the voting for Defensive Player of the Year.
Nonetheless, as Duncan heads into retirement, it's worth pondering whether he's the best defender in NBA history.

The 2017 NBA draft is shaping up to be one of the strongest in the last decade. What top prospects should fans look forward to?

The strongest NBA draft in a decade? Yes, according to NBA general managers and scouts.
Freshmen dominate the top of our Big Board rankings, including 14 of the top 15 players.
How have the rankings changed now that we're deep into the college basketball season? Big Board 3.0 has the latest.

We're getting closer to draft season.
Over the next few weeks, conference tournaments and March Madness will give players a major opportunity to boost their NBA draft stock.
I spoke with a number of NBA GMs and scouts to compile this updated ranking of the top prospects.
Here's our last Big Board of the college season.

Heading into this week's NBA draft combine, here's how our top 30 prospects rank, after consultation with NBA scouts and general managers.

Editor's note (June 9): These rankings have been updated with the news that French center Jonathan Jeanne was diagnosed with a career-threatening genetic disorder.
With the NBA draft combine in the books, it's time for another update to our Big Board.
Here's the latest intel on the top 30 prospects after consulting NBA scouts and general managers.

What's the best way to capture the greatness of LeBron James?
You could look at his four MVPs, his three Finals MVPs and his three titles. Or you could point to the fact that he's already the all-time leading playoff scorer -- and scoring is not even his best skill.
You could look up his triple-doubles and see that he's the all-time leader in the category for the Finals and for playoff elimination games. And from all indications, he hasn't left his prime yet.
But all those stats probably don't do James justice.

Saturday's news that the Boston Celtics and Philadelphia 76ers have agreed in principle to swap top picks should shake up the NBA draft.

The NBA draft is almost here and teams are now finalizing their big boards in preparation for Thursday night.
Here's the latest intel on the top 30 prospects after consulting NBA scouts and general managers.

Sixers get: Rights to No. 25 pick Anzejs Pasecniks
Magic get: 2020 Oklahoma City first-round pick (top-20 protected, becomes 2022 and 2023 second-round picks if not conveyed by 2022), worse of 2020 Brooklyn and New York second-rounders

What upcoming draft picks does every NBA team owe and own?
Here's our new team-by-team breakdown:
Note: This page will continue to update with each new deal. 
Picks in italics indicate protected selections that have rolled over if not conveyed in the original season.


What upcoming draft picks does every NBA team owe and own?
Here's our new team-by-team breakdown:
Note: This page will continue to update with each new deal. 
Picks in italics indicate protected selections that have rolled over if not conveyed in the original season.
           


Now that we've covered of our top 10 seniors in college basketball, you can find our rankings of the 25 best draft prospects in the class here.
Note: These rankings will continue to update throughout the season.


