ST. ANDREWS, Scotland -- Around 200 million people worldwide watched on television as the final pairing teed off on Sunday. This is what happened in the moments before the two men walked into the frame: Louis Oosthuizen, the leader, checks his iPhone, hands it to caddie Zack Rasego, asks for it back, checks it again and, finally, lets it go. The next time he turns it on, it will be full of text messages and voice mails, words of congratulations or regret. A friend in the crowd makes eye contact with Rasego, and they hug. 
"You've come a long way, hey?" the friend says.
Paul Casey, 4 shots back, hits a few final putts, then leans up against the green fence around the putting green, talking to someone. Someone calls out, "All the best, Paul." 
Then it's time. The tee is clear. The kid with the score sign walks past. Blue arm-banded marshals follow him. The caddies pick up the clubs.
Game on.

Golf
Wright Thompson is a senior writer for ESPN.com and ESPN The Magazine. Read his "Outside the Lines" feature on "The Ghosts of St. Andrews." He can be reached at wrightespn@gmail.com.
ST. ANDREWS, Scotland -- From behind the seventh green at
St. Andrews, all anyone could see was Tiger Woods' head bobbing up
and down from the deep bottom of Shell bunker.
This was foreign soil for Woods, who famously stayed out of the
sand all four rounds when he won the British Open five years ago.
He leaped twice to find his way out. Then came a puff of sand,
followed by his ball skirting up to the green and stopping 4 feet
away for a birdie.
	   By the end of his round Thursday, Woods was in a familiar spot
at St. Andrews.
	   He made seven birdies in a nine-hole stretch, then ventured
twice more into bunkers and settled for a 6-under 66 that gave him
a one-shot lead over Mark Hensby in the first round of the British
Open.
	   "I still feel very comfortable out there," Woods said after
his best start in a major championship since he opened with a 66 in
the 2000 PGA Championship. "Even though I had it going, finishing
at 6 [under] is a great start to the tournament. I'm very pleased
with the way I played all day."
Jack Nicklaus could hardly say the same.
	   Playing his 164th and final major championship at the home of
golf, Nicklaus stirred his legion of fans ever so briefly with a
7-iron that just cleared the Swilcan Burn for a 4-foot birdie on
the opening hole, and a nifty chip over Shell bunker into 5 feet
for a birdie at the seventh.
	   Three-putt bogeys on three straight holes, however, sent him to
a 75 and put him in a precarious position for making the cut, his
goal.
	   "Obviously, I'm going to have to play well tomorrow," he said.
"I doubt if par will make the cut. We'll just have to see."
	   The Old Course was in a far more favorable mood, with only light
breezes blowing across the links toward St. Andrews Bay. Provided
players avoided the bunkers, they could score.
	   Hensby had a chance to join Woods atop the leaderboard until a
12-foot birdie on the 16th and another 12-footer on the final hole
just missed, giving him a 67 and another impressive round in a
major.
	   The 10 players at 68 included Fred Couples, who birdied his last
two holes; Luke Donald of England, who thrived while playing with
Nicklaus and Tom Watson; and Jose Maria Olazabal, who somehow made
it around St. Andrews without a bogey.
	   Woods finished off his round with a 3-wood just left of the 18th
green, then a 70-foot putt that dipped in and out of the hollow
called "Valley of Sin" and stopped some 4 feet away for birdie.
	   But it was a burst of birdies in the middle of his round that
got everyone's attention.
Colin Montgomerie overcame an opening tee shot into the Swilcan
Burn for a 71 and was quite pleased until he saw how far behind he
already trailed the world's No. 1 player.
	   "It's ominous who's on top of the board. Ominous," Montgomerie
said. "If there's a course built for him, it's this one. He won by
eight shots last time here, and who says he won't do the same
again?"
	   Told that Woods opened with a 66 -- one shot better than his
start in 2000, when he won by eight -- Nicklaus hardly seemed
surprised.
	   "That's not fast for him. That's just a normal start,"
Nicklaus said.
	   Hensby also is becoming a regular fixture at the majors. He tied
for fifth in the Masters and tied for third at the U.S. Open,
joining Woods and Vijay Singh as the only players with top-10
performances in both majors this year.
	   Yet even Hensby issued a warning about the possibility of Woods
holding the claret jug.
	   "People are scared to say it but it's true," Hensby said. "If
he's playing well, we're all playing for second."
	   Woods, however, is no longer the sure thing.
	   Remember, he had a two-shot lead with two holes to play in the
Masters and had to go extra holes with Chris DiMarco. And just when
he was making a charge at Pinehurst No. 2 last month in the U.S.
Open, he made two straight bogeys at critical moments and finished
two shots behind Michael Campbell.
	   Then again, he has been playing well since missing the cut in
Dallas for the first time in seven years, finishing no worse than
third in his last three events. And his power is still a big
advantage at St. Andrews. He had nothing more than a wedge into six
holes, and twice was putting from just off a par 4.
	   One of those came at the ninth, when his tee shot stopped just
short of the green. That was the start of four straight birdies,
capped off by another monstrous drive that left him a short chip on
the 12th.
	   But he found another bunker -- the Coffins -- on the 13th with a
2-iron slightly pulled to the left, and he was barely able to get
back into the fairway. And a 5-iron from the 16th fairway turned
just slightly and wound up in Wig bunker short of the green. Woods
had to play away from the flag, and had to two-putt from 60 feet
for bogey.
	   "If you catch those bunkers around here, you know a shot is
going to be gone," said Olazabal, who played with Woods and Robert
Allenby. "And that's what happened to him."
	   There was plenty worse that happened to others.
	   Vijay Singh had to play a shot left-handed away from the lip of a
bunker on the 16th hole and was fortunate to walk off with bogey.
He still managed a 69, joining a large group that included
Campbell.
Phil Mickelson got lost in the rough on his way to a triple
bogey on the 15th and shot 74. Ernie Els, who thrives on the Old
Course, couldn't hole any putts and made three straight bogeys on
the back nine, also shooting 74.
	   Defending champion Todd Hamilton struggled with his putter and
was at 74, too. He was hardly surprised to see Woods leading, and
not just because of what happened five years ago.
	   "I expect him to do well in every tournament, but especially in
the majors, where it takes a guy that not only has a good golf
game, but understands how to play a difficult golf course,"
Hamilton said. "And this is a difficult golf course."
	   Along with two bogeys from the bunkers, Woods let two other
birdies get away.
	   One followed a somber two minutes at noon, when St. Andrews
joined the rest of the country in observing two minutes of silence
to honor victims of the terrorist attacks in London last week.
Woods later revealed his mother was in London the day of the
bombings.
	   "I'm very thankful that my mom is still here," he said.
	   He resumed his quest for the Open with a chip on the par-5 14th
that went past the hole and into the swale, costing him a good look
at birdie. And he missed a 6-footer for birdie on the 15th.
	   Still, he was right where he wanted to be -- in the lead, and in
control of the Old Course.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The main road through the town of Carnoustie is a bleak street framed by gray, sooty storefronts, a macadam so narrow you'll find yourself jumping a curb to let an oncoming double-decker bus rumble by. Turn right and ease through a skinny tunnel beneath the Dundee to Arbroath railway line, then right again, and you're at the municipally owned Carnoustie Golf Links, equally bleak, at first glance.
Carnoustie's Championship Course, acknowledged as one of the toughest in the world -- perhaps the toughest -- takes time to savor and appreciate.
Just inland from the North Sea, which is visible only from the 15th hole, the course is always exposed to the elements. But unlike most firm, fast, sand-based links, Carnoustie doesn't march out in one direction, then backtrack on the inward nine. Its holes change direction constantly. No more than two in a row face the same angle to the wind.
Its bunkers, as at most Scottish links, have vertical revetted walls of turf. But some aren't ovals. They twist and turn, distorting their walls into canted, even convex faces. Braid bunkers, locals call those concoctions, after their author, architect James Braid.
In other words, it's a fascinating design. The more you dig at Carnoustie, the more you understand. But, in this age of instant analysis, it's easier to be glib than accurate. Which is why, as Carnoustie prepares for its seventh British Open Championship, most will revisit the howls it generated at its last meeting.
In 1999, Carnoustie was considered one big unplayable lie, a links that demanded target golf, a scheme to make the best golfers in the world look like idiots. The finish was a Frenchman's folly and the wrong guy won, in the minds of most sportswriters. Scottish fans were thrilled that local hero Paul Lawrie prevailed, but most writers sniffed that Lawrie was a square peg in the shining round table of previous Carnoustie victors: Tommy Armour, Henry Cotton, Ben Hogan, Gary Player and Tom Watson.
Writers in '99 designated a villain. Not the Royal & Ancient, which conducts the Open and dictated its setup, but course superintendent John Philp, who was accused of putting a noose in Carnoustie by squeezing fairways into footpaths through a deliberately cultivated jungle of waist-high hay, and then cackling about it like some demonic sorcerer.
There are those who believe Philp got his comeuppance and was summarily fired after the event. No, what he got after the Open was investiture as a Member of the British Empire. (And therein lies another misconception. He is not now Sir John Philp. He wasn't granted knighthood, just an MBE.) Philp is still Carnoustie's superintendent, still there to make sure in 2007 that "no one makes an arse of my course." Philp was suspended in June after a confrontation with an apprentice, but hopes to be reinstated prior to the Open.
Sure, Carnoustie's setup in 1999 was severe. Each fairway varied in width at several spots from tee to green. One stretch on the 18th was just 18 yards wide, but it got wider at the landing area, then narrower again short of the burn in front of the green. The fairways averaged about 28 yards wide, the same widths they had been in the 1996 Scottish Open, when nobody complained, and mostly the same widths they'll be this year.
The secondary rough -- that waist-high hay -- was thick, but Philp hadn't fiendishly irrigated and fertilized it. The months prior to the Open were rainy and warm, perfect for native grasses to grow amok. Every course on Scotland's eastern seaboard was throttled with tall, thick rough that summer. By August, things had dried out and the tall stuff had wilted. But the Open was played in July. What exacerbated the situation were howling winds on the first two days of the championship, blowing hard from the west, opposite of the prevailing wind.
Let's quash the rumors that Philp chemically enhanced the rough in the months before the Open. There's almost no way to realistically spread fertilizer through the areas at Carnoustie where the tall rough grows: There are humps, dunes, clumps of gorse, unimproved ground. Second, we're talking about native grasses. Hit them with commercial fertilizers -- especially chemical sprays -- and you'll probably kill them, not improve them. Third, Carnoustie is a public facility with three 18s. I've seen its maintenance building. I've seen the equipment. I can't believe Philp and his people, without help from the R&A, would have spent the excess money to fertilize the acres and acres of tall rough.
The setup in '99 didn't cause Jean Van de Velde's last-round collapse (he started the day at even par, ahead by five), and it didn't prevent Lawrie from closing with a Hogan-like round of 67, to tie at 6-over-par 290, and then birdieing the 17th and 18th in the four-hole playoff to win easily over Van de Velde and Justin Leonard.
Speaking of Hogan, his victory there in 1953, his only appearance in the Open, demonstrates that fans of Carnoustie can be equally guilty of hyperbole. To hear people tell it these days, Hogan loved the place, every bonnie burn, every Braid bunker, every bad bounce. In truth, he didn't much care for it. "This is like putting on putty," he told club officials, adding that he should have brought his lawn mower with him from Texas.
The wronged man
There is a muzzle of sorts on Philp this year. Among five Open contacts listed for the media, Philp's name is conspicuously absent. Initial requests to interview him were turned down, but then genial Graeme Duncan, Carnoustie's general manager and secretary to the Open Championship Committee, relented on the condition that no questions be posed to Philp regarding the '99 event.
Duncan is the official spokesman for all things 1999, and he says mistakes were made that year. "The combination of firm fairways and high rough meant the course was perhaps too difficult. Players went away unhappy. That's certainly not what we wanted," Duncan says. "Certain elements were probably unfair. We didn't have enough semi-rough [what Americans call a narrow band of primary rough], so balls off the fairways just got swallowed up. We've learned our lesson. We'll have 3 to 4 meters of semi-rough along each side of every fairway this time around."
"Mr. Duncan has that wrong," Philp says, bringing up the subject himself by asking this reporter what he'd been told about the setup in '99. "We had a band of semi-rough in 1999. It was the same width and the same depth as it will be this year. But the purpose of semi-rough is to prevent a ball that's rolling from going into the thicker rough. If a ball is bouncing off-line and bounces through the semi-rough, well, sorry, but that's what they call the rub of the green. If it doesn't, that's a bonus. If it does, that's golf."
Philp thinks most of the brouhaha of '99 stems from incidents on a single hole, the par-5 sixth made famous by Hogan. Its wide fairway has long been split by a pair of deep bunkers, one beyond the other, forming two avenues. The safe, right-hand fairway presents an awkward second shot over dunes and the end of Jockie's Burn to reach the green. The dangerous left-hand route is lined by an out-of-bounds area along its left flank but presents a much better angle to the green. The left corridor looks extremely narrow and exacting from the tee, just 20 yards from the first center bunker to the O.B. stakes, but the corridor widens to 32 yards past the second bunker. After Hogan bravely drove down that avenue in each round in the '53 Open, it was dubbed Hogan's Alley.
For the '99 event, the R&A extended the hole from 525 yards to 578. When the winds blew from green to tee, it became a three-shotter for everyone. "So the second shots were landing in this little neck of fairway where it was about 14 yards wide for 40 yards or so," Philp says. "That was never intended to be the second-shot landing area. The real area was closer to the green, where it widened to about 30 yards."
The R&A also insisted before the '99 Open that Philp install a third center bunker to discourage players from trying to carry the first two. (After the event, Philp filled it in.) Last year, the R&A's consulting golf architect, Martin Hawtree, came up with a different strategy, creating two bunkers at the far end of the right-side fairway, placed to catch drives that might carry and roll 300 yards or more. The idea is to discourage anyone from going down the right side, to force players to either carry the center bunkers or play down Hogan's Alley.
Philp concludes that there was "a lot of weak golf that week, bad shots, played with iron clubs, let alone wood clubs. Take away the wind, and it would never have been topical. The rough would have been exactly the same, and nobody would have seen it as tricked up."
Weather conditions leading up to this year's Open have not been conducive to waist-high hay. It'll probably be more like knee-high oats. However, fairways will be even firmer than in 1999. They should look something like those at Royal Liverpool at last year's Open, where most of the color and nearly most of the life was drained from Hoylake's turf to make it play far livelier than it otherwise would. At the request of the R&A, Philp shut off Carnoustie's fairway sprinklers in a dry run during the summer of 2006, and achieved firm, fast conditions that pleased officials who visited just after the conclusion of the Open at Hoylake.
"The R&A would like us to play just as Royal Liverpool did last year," Duncan says. "But that's not possible. Royal Liverpool was golden brown. Being adjacent to the North Sea, with so many squall lines moving through, the best we'll be able to achieve is greeny-brown."
The right James
Carnoustie has one of the most stirring finishes in all of golf. It starts with the 248-yard, par-3 16th (the hardest par 3 in the world, according to Tom Watson, who won his first of five Opens there in 1975). That's followed by the 461-yard, par-4 17th, where the Barry Burn crisscrosses the hole three times, and the 499-yard 18th, once a par 5 but now a par 4 for the Open and members, where both tee shot and approach shot must tangle with the same burn. (By the way, the Barry is not really a burn, what we would call a creek. It's a tidal basin that rises and falls with the tides.)
So who is responsible for Carnoustie's fantastic finish? Although the course is more than 150 years old, the present-day Carnoustie is generally considered to be the work of five-time Open champion James Braid, who from the 1920s until his death in 1950 was Britain's leading golf architect. Braid, and his partner John R. Stutt, had remodeled the course in 1926, expanding tees, reshaping greens, adding 60 bunkers and enlarging others.
But Braid had hardly anything to do with those last three holes. Credit for them goes to James Wright, an accountant, longtime Carnoustie member and chairman of the Links Committee from 1926 to '37. It was Wright who first hired Braid, and it was Wright who then convinced the R&A to award the 1931 Open to Carnoustie.
That announcement was made in the spring of 1930, just after Carnoustie had hosted the Scottish Amateur. Many players expressed skepticism. Although Carnoustie's routing was shaped like a scorpion poised to strike, most thought its tail lacked sting. The 15th was a bland par 4 of just 339 yards. The 16th, in the opposite direction, was only 335 yards, the 17th was a wee par 3 of 150 yards and the 18th a drive-and-pitch 365-yard par 4. At least that green sat on the far side of Barry Burn.
In the summer of 1930, Wright proposed radical changes. The par-3 17th would be abandoned, replaced by a new par 3 to be played as the 13th. The 18th could then be extended back to the old par-3 tee box, creating a par 5 with two carries over the burn. The old 16th would become the 17th, played from a new back tee to a new green appropriated from Carnoustie's other course (now called the Burnside Course), its fairway defined by the several bends of the Barry Burn. The old 15th would become the 16th, shortened from a pushover par 4 to a stern par 3.
"The work which is to be commenced  is no harebrained scheme of a company of amateur course architects," wrote Harry Chapman, sportswriter for the Carnoustie Guide and Gazette in August 1930, "but is merely the continuation of the original plan suggested by James Braid in 1926."
In truth, it was the scheme of Wright, the amateur architect. Braid had offered additional ideas back in 1926, but his suggestion was that the par-3 17th be abandoned in favor of a new par 3 that would be created by dividing the par-5 Spectacles hole (now the famed 14th) into two holes. He never envisioned the par-3 16th or today's 17th. In September 1930, after construction on the new holes had begun, Wright traveled to Braid's home in London to obtain his blessing for the changes. "There is little doubt that the benediction of such an experienced player and course architect as James Braid should go far to subduing the hostile criticisms of those who do not see eye to eye with the local authorities," Chapman wrote.
Pride or curiosity apparently got to Braid. In November 1930, he rode a train all night, then caught a bus to Carnoustie. There, he, Wright and others walked the course for six hours. Braid made several suggestions regarding the new holes. He spent an hour staking out six bunkers around the new par-3 13th green, proposed three bunkers for the new 17th green, a new back tee on the 12th and a new tee on the Spectacles hole that would turn it into a dogleg-left over a wild stretch of gorse. All those changes were adopted and remain today.
Shortly before Braid departed, the group wandered over to the par-5 sixth. Braid proposed three new bunkers, including one in the center of the fairway, "for the purpose of forcing it to be played as a double-dogleg."
Thus was born Hogan's Alley, almost as an afterthought. Somehow, using only horses and carts, greenkeeper Andrew Scott and his workers got the holes rebuilt and regrassed in time for the British Open in June 1931. After that, Wright tinkered with Carnoustie some more, filling in dozens of superfluous bunkers that affected only bad golfers, and he brought the Open back to Carnoustie in 1937. Wright also completely remodeled Carnoustie's Burnside Course. (There's now a third course, the Buddon Links, built in 1979 and totally remodeled by Philp in the late 1980s and early 1990s.)
"Carnoustie would not be a championship course without James Wright," Duncan says, and he's right. Which brings up one last misconception regarding Carnoustie: Several people told me that Wright died during World War II. There's a plaque on a clubhouse wall of the Caledonia Golf Club (one of several artisan clubs that utilize the three courses of Carnoustie) honoring James A. Wright as one of several "members of this club who gave their lives in the war of 1939-1945."
Turns out, that was a son of James Wright who died en route home from the European theater. Carnoustie's James Wright, the man who first brought the Open to town, the man behind the strongest finish in golf, lived a long and full life. He died in August 1962, at age 82.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SOUTHPORT, England -- Simon Wakefield figures sleep might not come so easily, and that is to be expected. The queasy stomach he overcame Saturday morning could be in full churn Sunday as he prepares for the final round of the Open Championship.


A no-name on either side of The Pond, the Englishman managed an amazing third-round 70 on Saturday at brutal Royal Birkdale, where the windswept course had its way with the field, not allowing a single sub-par score.

	That allowed anyone near par to climb the leaderboard, including Wakefield, who finished with the clubhouse lead. After 54 holes, Wakefield stood at 5-over, 3 shots back of leader Greg Norman.

	"It's obviously very unfamiliar territory for me this week," said Wakefield, 34, winless in seven full seasons on the European Tour. "I'm familiar with the position, but not this position of a major championship, and certainly not the Open. I'm going to hopefully relax tonight, have a meal with some friends and not think about it."

	Good luck.

	Wakefield, who lost in a playoff last year at the Johnnie Walker Championship and was second earlier this year at a tournament in Austria, is playing in just his fourth Open, with his only cut made two years ago at Royal Liverpool. He has not played in any other majors.

	But he managed a round that included two birdies and two bogies and was anything but as routine as the score looked. Just like the other 82 players who made the cut, Wakefield dealt with golf balls wavering on greens and wind gusts that wreaked havoc with club selection, not to mention wind burn.

	"I hate the wind," Wakefield said. "I was very nervous about it."

	And yet he survived to earn a shot at the Claret Jug.









Wakefield is from a town called Newcastle-under-Lyme, located in the middle of the country between Manchester and Birmingham. He was asked about his uncle, Bob Taylor -- this is a recurring theme for press room visits -- who was a star wicket keeper in England. That would be cricket.

	A victory, he was told, might make him the most famous sportsman in the family.

	"He's achieved a lot," Wakefield said. "I think it'll take a few more years for me to reach his standard and level."

	Although Wakefield attended the 1991 and 1998 Opens at Royal Birkdale, he had never played the course until this week. He got interested in the game at age 15 in 1989, when he watched countryman Nick Faldo win the Masters in a playoff over Scott Hoch.

	He did win on the Challenge Tour -- Europe's version of the Nationwide Tour -- in 2002, and added a victory in South Africa at the Dimension Data Pro-Am in 2004 shortly after regaining his European playing privileges at the qualifying tournament.

	Since then, he has gotten progressively better, finishing 75th, 60th and 54th in each of the past three years on the European Tour money list.

	This year, he has made just 12 cuts in 22 events. But he is just a day away from possibly being the Open champion.

	"It's a long way off from my mind at the moment," Wakefield said. "There's a lot of golf to be played. It's a world-class field and I'm not even going to be thinking of that tonight. It's a fairy-tale situation, to be honest."

	Yes, it is.

Bob Harig covers golf for ESPN.com. He can be reached at BobHarig@gmail.com.









To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SOUTHPORT, England -- Through scarves, mittens and throats made raw from the biting breeze, they stood and cheered the most unlikely of leaders as he made his way to the home hole Saturday at Royal Birkdale.

Greg Norman then calmly and coolly pitched the prettiest little shot you ever saw to within inches of the cup to assure his place atop the 137th Open Championship leaderboard through three rounds, eliciting more roars from the frozen fans, some of whom waved an Australian flag that whipped in the wind.

Standing behind the green taking it all in was The Shark's onetime rival and now perhaps his biggest fan, Nick Faldo, a three-time Open champion who -- if he wasn't clapping -- was doing a little dance inside.

"You think anybody could have dreamed of this?" Faldo said after the numbers went up on the board, which showed Norman shooting a 2-over 72 in brutal conditions to lead defending Open champion Padraig Harrington and K.J. Choi by 2 strokes.

"He looks amazingly composed. We saw what it was like out there today, but to hold your composure on Day 3 with these elements is seriously good self-belief," Faldo said. "Why make Day 4 seem different?

"Everyone else is grinding and spitting out fescue grass. And he's cruising."

Norman, 53, is in position to become the oldest major championship winner -- by five years. And this is the first time since the 1996 Masters he will go into the final round of a major with the lead.

Augusta National, of course, was the site of his epic collapse against Faldo, who shot a flawless 67 on the final day to overcome a 6-stroke deficit, aided by Norman's implosion and a 78.

Faldo needed no prompting to discuss that delicate topic.

"We all know where he was the last time he had the lead at a major after 54 holes," Faldo said. "If he can claw his way back 12 years after what happened in Augusta, wow, that would be phenomenal."

This time, there won't be a 6-stroke lead, but perhaps also missing is the expectation that Norman should win. After local bookmaker Ladbrokes had him at 250-1 to start the week, Norman's odds have shrunk to 4-1, along with Choi's. Harrington, however, is considered the favorite at 5-2.

That makes sense, when you consider Norman plays more tennis with his new bride, Chris Evert, than he does golf. He admittedly came to England with no expectations. His main goal was to get ready for next week's British Senior Open at Royal Troon in Scotland and the U.S. Senior Open later this month.

It is a far different scenario from Norman's prime, when he was the game's marquee attraction, expected to win every time he teed up. For all the talk about Norman's disappointments in majors, he continued to be there often, winning two Open Championships and finishing runner-up in the game's biggest tournaments eight times.

"It is different, no question," Norman said. "The players are probably saying, 'My God, what's he doing up there?' But they know I've played golf before and I've played successful golf before."

Harrington, 36, who won last year's Open in a playoff over Sergio Garcia, is ranked 14th in the world and in the prime of his career. He also shot 72 on a day when nobody broke par, a first in a major championship since the final round of the 2004 U.S. Open at Shinnecock.

Choi, 37, has emerged as one of the game's top players, rising to 11th in the world this year. He has seven PGA Tour victories but has never finished better than third in a major. He would become the first Asian player to win a men's major championship. Choi shot 75 to drop from the second-round lead and marveled at what he saw in Norman.

"He's very imaginative, more imaginative than me," Choi said.

"As you get older," Faldo added, "you don't have to do so much. You don't have to be so clever. You play with what you've got. Don't get funny. He's been very impressive. Very good touch, especially on some testy greens. How come he still has the putting stroke at 53? Where is the fairness in life?"

Faldo, like many, struggled to come to grips with the magnitude of what a Norman victory would mean.

"With all that has gone on.  Tiger [Woods] not here, all the talk about that. Greg comes in here.  It's not like Greg to sneak in under the radar. You'd love to know what the little voice inside his head was saying at the beginning of the week."

According to Norman, it wasn't saying much of anything. And he tried to maintain his low-expectation approach, though he holds a 2-shot lead in the game's oldest tournament.

"I haven't been there for a long time," he said.

Faldo was there with Norman many times, including the 1990 Open at St. Andrews, where he dusted The Shark with a third-round 67 after they shared the 36-hole lead. But in 1993, Norman won his second Open, coming from behind with a final-round 64 at Royal St. George's to clip Faldo by 2 strokes.

Now, 15 years later, Norman is back again, a day away from what would surely go down as one of golf's greatest victories.

 Can he do it?

"I've got a funny feeling he can," Faldo said.

Bob Harig covers golf for ESPN.com. He can be reached at BobHarig@gmail.com.


























To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Swede Robert Karlsson, the 2008 European No. 1, has withdrawn from this month's British Open at Turnberry because of a long-term eye problem, the BBC said on Tuesday.
The 39-year-old, ranked 15th in the world and a nine-time winner on the European Tour, is suffering from a blister behind the retina and has not played since the European Open in May.
The British Open runs from July 16-19.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PLANO, Texas --  Ryder Cup captain Davis Love III was among eight players who qualified for the British Open on Monday, giving him a spot in all four majors for the first time since 2007.
Brian Davis of England was the medalist at Gleneagles Country Club with a 6-under 64, while Chad Campbell finished one shot behind. The 36-hole qualifier was reduced to 18 holes because of heavy rain that caused a six-hour delay.
Sergio Garcia didn't make it that long. The 31-year-old Spaniard withdrew because of an infected fingernail on his left hand that made it difficult for him to grip the club. Garcia has played in every British Open since he was an amateur at Royal Birkdale in 1998.
The British Open will be played July 14-17 at Royal St. George's.
Love, who tied for fourth when the British Open was held at Royal St. George's in 2003, was in the group of qualifiers at 66 that included Nathan Green, Spencer Levin, Chris Tidland and Bob Estes.
Jerry Kelly, who had a 67, earned the last spot in a six-for-one playoff, beating out Justin Hicks. It at least will give Kelly a shot at redemption at Royal St. George's, where in 2003 he made an 11 on the opening hole with four shots that traveled about 15 feet in the thick rough. Kelly wound up with an 86 and had to withdraw with a wrist injury.
Davis had a 68-68 weekend at Royal St. George's in 2003 and tied for sixth, his best finish in a British Open. In the International Final Qualifying event Monday, he had six birdies in a bogey-free round that left little doubt of his return to England.
"I had a really good ball-striking round today and any mishit shot I had went straight, so you know you're playing good when that happens," Davis said.
Brandt Snedeker was among those who failed to qualify in the playoff.
Others who failed to qualify included Stuart Appleby, Brian Gay, Paul Goydos and Mike Weir.
PGA Tour players still can get into the British Open over the next few months through a special money list that includes The Players Championship and the five consecutive tournaments through the AT&T National; and for being the highest finisher among the top 10 not already exempt in the AT&T National and the John Deere Classic.
That includes Garcia, who has not missed a major dating to the 1999 U.S. Open and now risks missing two in a row. Garcia, who is No. 73 in the world, already has said he will only play the U.S. Open if he gets into the top 50 by June 13.
"I couldn't grip the club properly today and it prevented me from playing when I wanted it most," Garcia said. "It's a setback, but I'm happy with the direction my game is headed and I'll be looking to make up for it the rest of the season. I always look forward to The Open Championship, and to have to withdraw today is a huge disappointment.
"Having a problem with your finger is obviously a big issue for a golfer."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SANDWICH, England -- He's named after the man he played with during the first round of the Open Championship, and it really doesn't get any better than that.
Except it did.
Tom Lewis, a 20-year-old Englishman, played with Tom Watson, 61-year-old five-time Open champion and legend, which would have been cool enough if the amateur hadn't thrown a 65 at Royal St. George's to tie for the first-round lead.
Then you learn that Lewis' dad, Bryan, a former European Tour pro, idolized Watson, an eight-time major champion, and wanted to name his first son after the golfer.
Hence, Tom Lewis.
"And my brother is Jack, so you can imagine who that was after," Tom Lewis said.
Well, of course.
And sister Stacey?
"That's after a model he fancied," said mom and wife Lynda Lewis, who acknowledged that it was apparent that her oldest son had a gift for golf at an early age.
"My husband could tell when he first put a hand on his club," Lynda Lewis said.
Bryan Lewis was apparently too nervous to come to Royal St. George's on Thursday from the family home north of London, but he undoubtedly is beaming at the news that his son is tied for the Open lead with Thomas Bjorn.
His 65 was the lowest score ever shot by an amateur at the Open and helped him become the first amateur to lead the tournament since 1968.
"To play with Tom, no matter what, was going to be excellent," Lewis said. "I was more not wanting to embarrass myself in front of him. To shoot 65 in front of Tom was just excellent, and he was just a great man to play with today."
Lewis is from a town in England called Welwyn and plays out of the same club as six-time major champion Nick Faldo. Last month, he won the St. Andrews Trophy. And in 2009, he won the British Boys Amateur title here at Royal St. George's.
On Thursday, Lewis began his round by one-putting the first eight greens. He made the turn at 3 under, made two bogeys, then birdied the 14th, 15th, 16th and 17th holes to tie Bjorn -- who is 20 years older.
"He was totally unfazed, by good shots and bad shots," said former European Ryder Cup captain Mark James, who is working as an analyst for the BBC. "Totally in control. It's very unusual. He will look back on this day in 10 or 20 years and say how did I do that? It was brilliant. For a 20-year-old amateur, that was a fantastic performance."
It is the first time an amateur has led any round of a major championship since Mike Reid at the 1976 U.S. Open.
"He's quite a refined player at 20," said Watson, who shot 72. "We certainly have a new young breed out here, don't we? We've got the McIlroys and the Ishikawas and the Lewises. We have a lot of young players playing very good golf.
"I just had to smile inside to watch him play. I didn't play particularly well myself, but I certainly was impressed by the way he played."
Lewis has been out of school since age 16 pursuing his passion for golf. He plans to turn pro later this year after the Walker Cup, but for now plays in amateur events and is supported by his parents.
"Our mortgage is massive," said Lynda Lewis, whose husband works as a golf professional at a club. "We work hard. But you do what you do for your kids."
"Golf is my career and that is why I needed to work hard," said Tom Lewis, who disclosed he was dyslexic and was happy to leave school. "Hopefully I can carry on doing what I'm doing because it obviously seems to be working today, and hopefully I can be playing tournaments for years to come."
It is clearly a different path than ones typically taken by American golfers. For example, Patrick Cantlay, 19, the low amateur last month at the U.S. Open, has said he will continue with school at UCLA, where he will be a sophomore. Cantlay went on to shoot 60 at the Travelers Championship and made three straight cuts in PGA Tour events.
After acknowledging the sacrifice his parents have made for him, Lewis was asked about the financial difficulties.
"Hopefully it will pay off long term but at this moment in time, sitting here ... I've got a long way in my career and hopefully I can produce good golf. And if not, then they're still poor," he said, smiling.
Lewis travels the amateur circuit with the English national team, works with noted English coach Pete Cowen -- who is also the instructor to Bjorn, Graeme McDowell and Lee Westwood, among others -- and qualified for the Open by making it through a local 36-hole event at Rye. Last year, he finished 12th at the Australian Open, lost in a playoff at the New South Wales Open and earlier this year made the cut at the Dubai Desert Classic.
"I'm not really surprised, I'm more impressed," said Henrik Stenson, another Cowen student who was the third member of the threesome. "If you look at his game, you could see him putting a score like that together. He has no weaknesses and a good head. He definitely has the game for it."
"I was just thrilled to be here, but to shoot 65 the first round was something I wouldn't have thought," Lewis said. "I was just happy to get the drive off the first tee, and that was all that mattered."
It will be interesting to see how Lewis holds up over the rest of the week. He acknowledged that shooting that kind of score again would be difficult -- "the wind died down for us" -- and that he truly was just focused on making the cut.
But it's hard for anyone to avoid dreaming. After all, Lewis would be the Open's youngest champion in 143 years, going all the way back to Young Tom Morris, who was just 17 in 1868.
That's crazy talk, but then what happened Thursday was not exactly expected, either.
"Shooting 65 is excellent, but to hold off the best players in the world will be even harder," Lewis said.
He did it for one day, and it was impressive.
Bob Harig covers golf for ESPN.com. He can be reached at BobHarig@gmail.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LYTHAM ST. ANNES, England -- All-but-perfect weather let the leaders go low in the Open Championship on Thursday, as Adam Scott flirted with a major championship record before settling on the lead and Tiger Woods went low enough to put himself in contention through 18 holes.
Woods, the pre-tournament favorite, shot a 3-under-par 67 to put himself in position to pursue his 15th major title and fourth Claret Jug.
But Woods wasn't as good as Scott. The Australian flirted with the major championship scoring record before settling for a 64, matching the lowest score shot at Royal Lytham, one off the best in a Grand Slam event.
He leads a group of three players by 1 shot.
"It's nice just to take advantage of the calm conditions today," Scott said. "It was surprising but very pleasing to go out and play some solid golf. It's what I haven't done the first rounds of the majors this year, and that was my goal here, really, starting the week was to play today like it was Sunday and there was no tomorrow.
"I did a good job of that, and now I've got my work cut out for me the next couple of days to keep myself in a similar kind of position."
This is the first time Scott has held or shared the lead after the first round of a major, according to ESPN Stats & Information.
Woods also got off to a good start, making four birdies in his first seven holes and getting under par -- as he had done in each of his three Open victories. To be in contention, you all but had to be under par Thursday. Woods missed just one fairway and hit 15 of 18 greens, but needed 30 putts.
"It was pretty soft," he said. "The wind wasn't blowing, and we're backing golf balls up. That's something we just don't see. On the first hole is a perfect indication; I hit a 5 iron straight at it, and it rolled out 8 feet. I can't remember the last time it does that on links golf course.
"So we knew that we needed at least to get off to a quick start on that front nine, and I figured a couple under would have been good.  But I look up on the board and Scotty is going pretty low and so is everyone else. I felt I had to make a few more and I was able to."
After a summer of rain in England, it stopped drizzling early Thursday morning just as the first groups were teeing off at the 141st Open Championship.
And the wind died, too, making Royal Lytham a vulnerable links. It measured 6,973 yards during the opening round, and a slew of players finished in red numbers.
Paul Lawrie -- who has not finished in the top 10 of a major since winning the 1999 Open at Carnoustie -- Zach Johnson, the 2007 Masters champion who is coming off a victory Sunday at the John Deere Classic in Moline, Ill., and Nicolas Colsaerts each shot 65 to trail Scott by one.
Brandt Snedeker turned in a 66 as the light faded.
Rory McIlroy, Masters winner Bubba Watson, Ernie Els and Graeme McDowell were among those who joined Woods with a 67
Woods shot a front-side 30, and it could have been better as he missed a couple of decent birdie opportunities that skimmed the hole.
Then he settled into par mode until the par-4 15th, where he missed his first fairway of the day, leading to a bogey. It was actually a good bogey, as he found deep rough, barely advanced it, then had another difficult shot just to get the ball on the green. He did, then two-putted for bogey.
It was Woods' ninth career sub-70 opening-round score at the Open, and in each of his three victories at St. Andrews (2000, '05) and Royal Liverpool ('06) he shot in the 60s.
"I felt like I played well today," he said. "I really hit it well. And as I said, I was very close on making a few more putts.  Every ball was starting right on my line. I was very pleased with that. I've just got to hit the putts a little harder."
For Scott, he shot his best score in a major, beating the final-round 66 he scored this year during the final round of the Masters. His 64 was one off the major championship record of 63, which has been shot 25 times, and included a bogey at the 18th hole, where he drove into the deep rough to the left of the fairway.
There have been eight 63s in the Open Championship, the last by McIlroy two years ago at St. Andrews.
Scott, who won last year's WGC-Bridgestone Invitational and employs Woods' former caddie, Steve Williams, admitted he thought about the major championship record score when he got to the 17th tee.
"I had to get that out of my mind," said Scott, who noted he would like to see the wind pick up.
Since 1975, just five first-round leaders of the Open have gone on to win: Woods (2005), John Daly (1995), Greg Norman (1993), Seve Ballesteros (1988) and Tom Watson (1980), according to ESPN Stats & Information.
Lawrie, 43, is having a bit of a resurgence, having won tournaments each of the past two years on the European Tour after having no victories since 2002. He appears in line to make his first European Ryder Cup team since winning the Open in 1999.
Johnson, 36, birdied the second playoff hole Sunday to defeat Troy Matteson at the John Deere and win for the ninth time on the PGA Tour. But this was just his third round in the 60s -- and lowest -- in nine Open appearances.
"After all the chatter about conditions and how difficult this golf course is and how much rain is there going to be and how much wind is there going to be, it was kind of weird standing out there looking around in shirt sleeves at guys being 4-, 5- and 6-under par," McDowell said. "It was a pretty benign start to the week.
"I'm under no illusion that this golf course has no teeth, though, and it could be a sleeping giant for sure. But those were benign conditions and it was nice to take advantage of them."
Watson, whose gambling style seemed ill-suited for a British Open, was downright steady -- heck, even a little boring. He rapped in birdies when he had the chance and generally stayed out of trouble.
Colsaerts, a big hitter from Belgium, might've had the best round of the day, considering the breeze picked up and the rain returned in the afternoon. He holed out for an eagle at No. 2 and was 2 under on the tougher back side.
McIlroy wasn't too shabby, either. He rallied for birdies on two of the last three holes after an errant tee shot at the 15th struck a spectator in the back of the head, the ball ricocheting out of bounds behind a hamburger stand. He had to tee off again and took a double-bogey.
"If he could have headed it the other way, it would have been better," McIlroy quipped.
The 16-year-old fan, who was attending his first Open Championship, had his head bandaged up and appeared a bit woozy. Fortunately, he wasn't seriously injured. McIlroy came over to check on his condition and give him an autographed glove that said "Sorry" and included a smiley face.
"The most important thing was that he was OK," McIlroy said. "I would have felt terrible if it was worse than it was."
Not everyone had a smiley face. Defending Open champion Darren Clarke struggled to a 76. Lee Westwood, the English favorite and best player without a major title, got off to a sluggish start with a 73.
"I've got to go and practice," Clarke said. "I'm basically disgusted with myself for shooting 6 over."
World No. 1 Luke Donald, who's never been much of a factor in the majors, got off to a respectable start with a 70.  But Phil Mickelson, the runner-up a year ago at Royal St. George's, made a total mess of things at the far end of the course. He took double bogey at the seventh after needing two swings to escape the punishing rough, and he bogeyed the eighth after hitting into a bunker, then popping out into another deep patch of rough, forcing him to take an unplayable lie. He finished with an ugly 73.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LYTHAM ST. ANNES, England --  Carlos Tevez is no stranger to the golf course -- he spent a lot of time on one while on a five-month strike from Manchester City last season.
However, the round he had on Sunday was one he'll never forget.
On a glorious morning at Royal Lytham & St. Annes, the Argentina striker caddied for countryman Andres Romero in the final round of the Open Championship.
This was no pro-am. This was golf's oldest and most famous tournament.
"The chance to walk along the course and be around these great players is a pleasure and something unforgettable," Tevez said.
After Romero shot a 77 in his third round Saturday to drop out of contention for the title, Tevez visited the house of the No. 109-ranked player and asked if he could carry his bag in the fourth round. They've been friends since meeting at the 2008 British Open at Royal Birkdale.
Romero agreed to give regular caddie Anibal Nunez the day off and set out with Tevez in the fifth grouping of the morning, along with Chad Campbell of the United States.
Wearing a blue cap and top -- and carrying a set of clubs almost as big as him -- Tevez acted as a shoulder to cry on for Romero, who shot a 12-over 82 to slump to dead last in the remaining field of 83, finishing at 18-over par.
"I couldn't give any advice about the slopes, but I just carried the bag and supported him each hole," Tevez said. "Andres is a professional, and he knows everything already.
"We worked together very well."
The 28-year-old Tevez was photographed numerous times on the golf course when he was on unauthorized leave from City last season, having fallen out with manager Roberto Mancini after refusing to warm up as a substitute during a Champions League match in September.
When he did return to action with the English Premier League club, he helped it win the title for the first time in 44 years. After scoring a goal in a 6-1 victory at Norwich, he celebrated by swinging an imaginary golf club.
Tevez is a 13 handicap and has played with Romero before in Buenos Aires.
But he has never carried such a heavy bag. And has no plans to attempt to become a professional golfer after he retires from soccer.
"No, I play just with my friends as an amateur. I don't want to change from that," he said. "The golf bag hurts my shoulder too much, I prefer to play football. And my pants were very tight."
Tevez couldn't inspire Romero, who made four double-bogeys on his way to one of the highest rounds of the week.
"I played really badly today, but he was helping me with my confidence," Romero said. "He did not complain at all when I asked him if he was in any pain."
With the start of the new English soccer season less than a month away, Tevez was spotted at Royal Lytham & St. Annes on Saturday, signing autographs for fans. He wound up on the course a day later.
"This was the dream of everybody who plays golf. It was my first major" he said.
Tevez isn't the first sports star to caddie at the Open Championship.
In 1996, Ian Baker-Finch of Australia had a last-minute change of heart and decided to drop his TV commentary duties and enter the field at Royal Troon. He was exempt after winning the event in 1991.
However, he had already sent his caddie home having played poorly the week before. Short of options, he temporarily hired Australian tennis player Todd Woodbridge, who forged one of the most successful ever doubles partnerships with Mark Woodforde.
Things didn't work out so well. Baker-Finch shot a 92 and retired from the tournament citing an injury.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
In her former life, before she found herself serving as acting commissioner of the LPGA, Marsha Evans learned a valuable lesson as a recruiter for the U.S. Navy.
"You have to go the extra mile," Evans said. "And you have to tell people what the real truth is."
The real truth is this: The LPGA has only 14 events locked in for the 2010 season, after playing a 28-event calendar this year and a 34-event ledger in 2008.
The truth is so ugly because former commissioner Carolyn Bivens didn't go the extra mile to build relationships with tournament sponsors, players, fans or the media. Now it's up to Evans, and whoever follows her, to go twice or three times the distance to pull the tour out of its current downward spiral.
"Meetings are important, mailings are important, keeping channels open," said 72-time LPGA Tour winner Annika Sorenstam, who is serving as an advisor to the tour's board of directors. "You have to be on tournament sites. You have to meet the players. It's every week. You need to be seen, you need to be heard. You need to mingle."
If anything sums up the troubles facing the LPGA, it's the end of the SBS Open at Turtle Bay in Honolulu. Bivens chose a little extra money over a lot of history when she struck a deal this year with J Golf instead of the Seoul Broadcasting System (SBS) to air LPGA events in South Korea. That move terminated a fruitful 15-year relationship with SBS, which promptly pulled its sponsorship of the last remaining LPGA Tour stop in Hawaii.
The bump in television rights fees ($2 million) was diluted by the drop in purse money from the SBS Open ($1.2 million). J Golf did, however, pick up sponsorship of a tournament in Phoenix that was in danger of having no title sponsor for 2009. Still, the damage was significant: The LPGA lost its gateway state to Asia.
"The state has had a lot of interest in holding events here," said Matthew Hall, director of golf at Turtle Bay Golf Resort, where the SBS was held. "Because of the schedule, you could be in the U.S. but moving toward Asia -- going over or coming back. But that's lost right now. The tour needs to refind its identity."
And that identity is the mom-and-pop feel of well-rooted tournaments in middle-sized communities like Toledo, Ohio, and Rochester, N.Y.
"There's incredible support for those tournaments every single year," says J.S. Kang, vice president of Sterling Sports Management. "It's never been about TV rights. It's always been about good golf. That's the brand, not something that's going to compete with the Dallas Cowboys and New York Giants."
But Bivens often made the LPGA's hometowns feel worthless as she went for the bigger payday, and Evans is trying to pull out all the stops to save the 15 events that are still up in the air, including old standbys such as the Wegmans LPGA in upstate New York, the Michelob Ultra Open in Williamsburg, Va., and the Jamie Farr Owens Corning Classic in Toledo.
"I will come at the drop of a hat to help close these deals," Evans said. "Every partner is important. They all represent opportunity. I genuinely want to reach out and form partnerships."
That's an approach that will serve the next commissioner well in other aspects of the job.
So who might be the next person in charge when a full-time hire is made? Sorenstam downplayed the possibility of her name being tossed into the mix.
"I'm not interested," she said. "I find it flattering. I do not have the qualifications. I do have some knowledge. I am not the right person for this. My role [as an advisor] is perfect. I can help from the outside. We need a savvy business person with a great network and someone with a lot of respect."
Bivens made some financially beneficial decisions on the LPGA's behalf, but also found ways to alienate tournament organizers, executives, sponsors and players -- specifically, the large contingent of 45 South Korean pros who were pressured to learn English or face suspension. All of those groups felt the sting of a commissioner seemingly bent on shaking out a few more pockets instead of shaking a few more hands.
"There's no question that over the last two or three years, I have felt frustration," said Kang, who represents several LPGA players. "I have offered my assistance. There have been small discussions but never a request for more input."
Even though a group of veteran players got together this month and basically staged a coup when they asked for Bivens' resignation in a letter during the event in Toledo, few, if any, say she did not have their best interests at heart. Bivens arrived with a mandate to make the tour more money, and she steadily raised the per-event purse.
"I love the LPGA and have been proud to serve as its commissioner for the last four years," Bivens said in a statement after her resignation. "I am also proud of what the LPGA has accomplished during my tenure. My job was to be a change agent, to help move the LPGA into the strongest possible position to ensure its future."
But Bivens' scorched-earth methods overshadowed every deal. They were compounded by either failing to talk about the situation or by saying the wrong thing altogether.
"There were a lot of people that would comment that she was very bad at chitchat," Hall said. "Somebody has to feel comfortable standing in front of a camera, and I don't think she necessarily did."
So instead of pushing South Korean players to learn English, Evans wants to enhance the LPGA experience by promoting the tour's ability to facilitate meaningful interactions between all fans and all players. Instead of calling for players to use Twitter during events -- another Bivens faux pas -- she wants to encourage fans and players to share a few words along the rope line.
"You will have a unique opportunity to be right on the front lines," Evans said. "Fans and observers can walk right alongside the players. For people who want to improve their golf game, you can see an extraordinary, technically beautiful golf swing."
But in order to see those swings, Evans and whoever follows her will have to make sure LPGA golf is played in as many places as possible. The push for tour stops is so intense that, when asked if she has plans to institute a health-care plan for players, she confessed that not a single pro had even mentioned the issue since she took over.
"The players want to play," she said. "They want opportunities. Those are my marching orders."
The story of this decade in sports (and society) has been a world-is-flat shift to globalism. The NBA, NHL and Major League Baseball all have worked to turn their neighborhood sports into world conglomerates. The LPGA, with its wonderful medley of 121 players from 26 countries, must now try to do the opposite: make an international tour feel a little more like a barnstorming road trip among old friends.
Eric Adelson's book, "The Sure Thing: The Making and Unmaking of Golf Phenom Michelle Wie," is now on sale and can be purchased at michellewiebook.com. He can be reached at ericadelson@gmail.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SOUTHERN PINES, N.C. -- If they look up to her these days, it is only because she is tall. Michelle Wie towers over many of the other teenage golfers in the U.S. Women's Open field, both literally and figuratively. But she does not cast nearly as big a shadow.
Perhaps there is a lesson to be learned for the nearly two dozen teenage golfers who begin play at Pine Needles Lodge & Golf Club on Thursday. Wie might have been their role model when she was hobnobbing with Ernie Els at the Sony Open or trying to qualify for the U.S. Open or signing endorsement deals for more than $10 million, but nearly two years into her professional career, she remains winless, her last significant victory coming four years ago at the U.S. Women's Amateur Public Links. Three weeks ago at the LPGA Championship, she finished 10 shots behind her nearest competitor, 35 shots behind winner Suzann Pettersen.
A wrist injury has undoubtedly factored into her recent poor play, which didn't stop the critics from pouncing. All along, Wie's motives have been questioned, her path to professional golf picked apart. The fact that she again said this week that she has not given up on competing against men only makes matters more troubling.
Alexis Thompson isn't talking about playing against men or when she might turn professional. After all, she is just 12 years old and is the youngest player ever to qualify for the U.S. Women's Open. But given her success to this point, the questions are inevitable.
"I would like to have the college experience," said Thompson, who is still six years away from that level of higher education. "Whenever I can turn pro would be great."
Asked if she would like to get into more LPGA Tour events -- this is the first one she is playing in -- Thompson said "that would be great," before adding she also wanted to play in the U.S. Girls' Junior and the Canon Cup, high-profile junior events.
That, of course, is the path Wie avoided, the one that many believe she should have followed. Wie skipped high school golf, didn't play American Junior Golf Association events, stayed away from the high-end amateur circuit in favor of competing in men's events and on the LPGA Tour.
Meanwhile, 19-year-old Morgan Pressel begins play at the U.S. Women's Open as the No. 5-ranked player in the world and one of 23 teenagers (not including Thompson) in the field. She took a more conventional route to the pro game, dominating AJGA tournaments while picking her spots to play against the pros.
Pressel became the youngest major champion in LPGA history when she captured the Kraft Nabisco in April. She might not have Wie's wealth, but when it comes to golf as a career, she is doing just fine.
"I'm a big fan of the AJGA," said Pressel, who before Thompson was the youngest player to qualify for the U.S. Women's Open, when it was played here in 2001. "I give a lot of credit to the AJGA for their organization and what they do for junior golf and how they help a lot of juniors get scholarships as well as to prepare them for play on the biggest stage in golf. That's why I think there's a lot more girls now who can come out here and really play well at younger ages because the AJGA prepares them so well for that. And it was really a great experience for me. I made a lot of friends and I played well and I competed against some of the toughest fields in junior golf for four years."
Most importantly, Pressel won and won often. She captured 11 AJGA events, including all five of the circuit's invitationals. She learned how to win -- a common knock against Wie.
When Pressel first played in the Open, she was one of just five teens in the field. That number swelled to a record 25 last year, and certainly Wie had an influence on that. She has shown that players can compete at a young age, so more are trying.
But will they follow her path? It depends. Esther Choe, 17, already in her third U.S. Open, has decided to give up a scholarship offer to Arizona and will turn pro in August after her 18th birthday. Vicky Hurst, 17, a runner-up at the 2006 U.S. Girls' Junior, is here and likely headed to college. Some of the teenagers in the field who qualified may never have pro careers.
All of this suggests that to have success as a pro, you'd better start young. Then again, Karrie Webb, 32, a two-time U.S. Women's Open winner who is in the LPGA Hall of Fame, hardly followed that formula. She started playing golf late -- at least by these standards -- but had won her first LPGA title at age 20.
"To me, it's whether you have the natural ability," Webb said. "And then the love of the game to work hard yourself. That's the biggest key. If you're doing it for somebody else, you may start off well in your career, but eventually it's not going to be long lasting. I think you have to have the love of the game in your own heart rather than someone telling you that that's what you should feel.
"That's not singling out Michelle.  There's a lot of young girls out here that I often wonder that, whether they're playing for themselves or playing because that's what they grew up dreaming to be."
Wie has not broken par on the LPGA Tour in her last 13 rounds. She has been the subject of intense criticism, as many simply wait for her to fail. Yet she has all those millions, and plenty of time. And that is a point to remember for all the teenagers in this week's field: She is just 17.
Bob Harig is a frequent contributor to ESPN.com. He can be reached at BobHarig@gmail.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
At first glance, it might not look like much. The announcement of an amateur tournament in some faraway place not exactly known for its golf prowess is more likely to elicit yawns than applause.
But look a little closer, and you see the significance of Monday's news from Hong Kong about the new Asian Amateur Championship.
The Masters Tournament is involved. So is the Royal & Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, golf's governing body outside of the United States. And the event is not just backed by their names, as the leaders of two of the game's four major championships are funding the venture.
Perhaps most important of all, they are giving playing opportunities in their respective events, the Masters and the Open Championship.
"I genuinely think this is a historic announcement for two reasons," said Peter Dawson, the R&A's chief executive, in a phone interview from Hong Kong, where Masters chairman Billy Payne was also in attendance.
"First of all, what it would do for golf in the Asia-Pacific region, causing excitement in the amateur game. And it also links in with championship golf worldwide with this invitation to the Masters and the qualification tournament for the Open Championship.
"It's the first time, really, that two major championships in golf have come together in any kind of initiative to develop the game. I hope to see more of this going forward. It's very appropriate with the way our fields in our major championships are ever-expanding."
It is one thing to talk about trying to expand the game globally. Lots of folks have those kinds of goals and ambitions.
But few have the money and clout of Augusta National, or the worldwide reach of the R&A.
Starting this year, the inaugural Asian Amateur Championship will be played at Mission Hills Golf Club's World Cup Course from Oct. 29-Nov. 1. The event will move to other countries affiliated with the Asia Pacific Golf Confederation, with the 2010 tournament scheduled for Japan. There are 32 national golf associations throughout Asia-Pacific with about 18 million golfers and 4,000 golf courses.
Players, who will earn their spots in the field based on the World Amateur Golf Rankings, will tee it up with the knowledge that a victory will get them a coveted spot in the 2010 Masters while the winner and runner-up will be exempt into the Open Championship's International Final Qualifying -- meaning the opportunity to earn a place in the 2010 Open at St. Andrews.
How big is that? Well, there are plenty of world-class players who have yet to earn a spot in either field in 2009. Davis Love comes to mind. So does Colin Montgomerie. And David Toms.
"We really think this is going to help develop the game in Asia-Pacific," Dawson said. "You can do things at the grassroots level, but by putting money into the elite level, players have something to aspire to."
Dawson said the original idea for an amateur event came from Payne, who took over as chairman at Augusta National in 2007 and has made growing the game a big priority through several initiatives.
The club is a big supporter of the First Tee program, is behind the effort to make golf a part of the Olympics (starting in 2016), and last year began a junior pass program at the Masters allowing children 16 and under to attend the tournament for free with a badge holder.
Last month, Payne extended a special invitation to Japan teenager Ryo Ishikawa to play in this year's Masters.
And now Payne is following through on what he had hinted at nearly a year ago.
"From the very beginning of our tournament, considerable emphasis has been placed on amateur participation," Payne said prior to the 2008 Masters. "Early on our founders, including the greatest amateur of all, Bobby Jones, established qualification standards which ensured a permanent and prominent place for amateurs in our competitive field; the ultimate prize of a Masters invitation has inspired amateur golfers over the decades to compete at the highest level. As they have done so, and as they have become heroes to their contemporaries, they have influenced others to take up the game."
Over the years, amateur participation in the Masters has varied. At times, the tournament invited the semifinalists of the U.S. Amateur as well as those who made the U.S. Walker Cup team. Today the tournament invites the U.S. Amateur winner and runner-up, as well as the winners of the British Amateur, U.S. Public Links and U.S. Mid-Amateur.
Now add, starting in 2010, the winner of the Asian Amateur Championship.
"There remains, we believe, an untapped opportunity in Asia and other parts of the world, where amateur golf has its greatest growth potential," Payne said.
The Open Championship gives exemptions to the winners of the U.S. Amateur, British Amateur and European Amateur, as well as spots into final local qualifying for the runners-up in those tournaments.
The Masters and the R&A will underwrite the event, which includes the staging of the tournament as well the financial assistance allowed under amateur rules for the players.
Dawson estimated the sum to be "hundreds of thousands of dollars," and said it is "a strong financial commitment from both sides, but we think it is the right thing to do."
And, upon closer inspection, a pretty significant thing to do as far as a couple of major championships are concerned.
Bob Harig covers golf for ESPN.com. He can be reached at BobHarig@gmail.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DUBLIN, Ohio -- He starred at an American university, won a couple of PGA Tour events, played for Europe in the Ryder Cup, and on Thursday set a Memorial Tournament record by needing just 20 putts in the first round at Muirfield Village.
But Luke Donald has a far more interesting claim to fame.
Or, at the very least, he is the answer to a pretty good trivia question.
Donald played alongside Jack Nicklaus when the Golden Bear played his final round of golf in an official PGA Tour event.
That was in 2005 at the Old Course, where Nicklaus had all of St. Andrews on its feet as he played his final strokes of competitive golf. That he was able to coax home a birdie putt as his final act is just part of the Nicklaus legend.
Donald, who shot an opening-round 64 on Thursday at Nicklaus' Memorial Tournament and had a 3-shot lead over Jim Furyk, Ted Purdy, Jason Day and Thomas Aiken, was there for history.
"I've been very fortunate to spend a decent amount of time with Jack Nicklaus, a little bit through my relationship we have at RBS [Royal Bank of Scotland] and a little bit through being a member of the Bear's Club in Jupiter [Fla.]
"I see him quite a bit in the winter, and he's very generous. … I've been very fortunate to spend time with [him], and it's nice to play well at his tournament."
It might seem unusual that Donald could be so close to Nicklaus, given that the former is from England, is 38 years younger, lives part of the year in Chicago and is hardly in the mold of the power player that was Nicklaus.
But there are several reasons for their friendship.
A decade ago when he played for Northwestern, Donald won the 1999 Jack Nicklaus Award, which is given annually to the nation's top college golfer. That earned him an invitation to the 2000 Memorial, where he tied for 51st as an amateur.
From there, the unlikely friends got to know each other through the relationship with RBS, membership at Nicklaus' dream golf course in northern Palm Beach County -- the Bear's Club -- and, of course, those first two rounds of the 2005 Open Championship along with Tom Watson.
"There was a part of me that was extremely happy to be in the pairing, and part of me wondered if it would be a distraction," Donald said. "To be honest, it wasn't too big of a distraction. I think I would never give up that distraction for the chance to be in that pairing. It's something very special, something I felt honored to be part of. … The last couple of holes on Friday is something that I'll always remember."
Donald's first round Thursday was memorable in a different way because it required so few putts.
The 20-putt tally was the lowest total in tournament history, and just two shy of the PGA Tour record of 18, accomplished six times -- most recently in 2000 by Corey Pavin at the Bell Canadian Open.
Donald had a stretch of six straight birdies starting at the 18th hole, and he birdied eight of nine holes at one point. He played his last 11 holes in 8 under par.
"All year, I've been trying to focus on hitting more greens and hitting more fairways because I have been putting the ball well," said Donald, 31, who leads the PGA Tour in total putting and putting average (1.697) and is sixth in putts per round with 27.95. He is also first in putting from inside 5 feet (99.08 percent) and first from inside 10 feet (91.31 percent).
"This course is reasonably generous off the tee, but you have to put your approach shots in good position to give yourself uphill putts because downhill putts are extremely, extremely quick and you have to give them a lot of respect. I did a good job of giving myself some makeable putts today, which helped."
Donald has long been regarded as one of the game's solid young players, but he has not won since the Honda Classic in 2006. Yet he still ranks 21st in the Official World Golf Rankings and has four top-10 finishes this year, including a tie for second at the Verizon Heritage.
Last year, Donald's season was cut short at the U.S. Open when he suffered tendon damage on his left wrist and had surgery in August. He had a slight setback at this year's Accenture Match Play, where he conceded a match on the 18th tee trailing Ernie Els 1 down.
It turned out to be scar tissue that was bothering him and wasn't a serious problem.
Now, Donald is hoping to get serious about winning again, and Jack's tournament would be a great place to do it.
"It's a special tournament," he said. "The players look forward to this event. We're treated extremely well. It's one of the better courses we play all year, and the best greens we play all year. It would mean a lot to play well here and have a chance to win.
"But it's extra special because I know Jack a little bit better than some of the other guys."
Bob Harig covers golf for ESPN.com. He can be reached at BobHarig@gmail.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Maybe you remember Herman Boone, who always insists with a twinkle in his eye that he was far better looking than the man who portrayed him -- Denzel Washington -- as the hard-nosed, pioneering high school football coach at T.C. Williams high school in Alexandria, Va. in the Hollywood mega-hit, "Remember The Titans."
Years after the movie came out in 2000, Boone remains a widely sought-after motivational speaker around the country. But at his favorite golfing venue in the world, he's just another one of the guys who often finds it difficult to get a word in edgewise as he sits around the clubhouse over morning breakfast, afternoon lunch or even early evening bacon and eggs with his small battalion of golfing buddies at historic Langston Golf Course in northeast Washington, D.C.
"When I'm not traveling, I got there pretty much every day to meet and talk to my friends," Boone said in a recent interview. "I can't think of any place I'd rather be, to tell you the truth. For a lot of us, it's a home away from home, and the only golf course in town you can still get breakfast at 6 in the evening."
Langston has been both a playground and a meeting ground for generations of African-American golfers. In recent years, the course has also drawn a diverse flock of dedicated players of all ages, genders and races to its challenging 6,500-yard, par-72 layout that stands a driver and a 3-wood away from RFK Stadium.
The course, which counts about 25,000 rounds played a year, was opened in 1939 at a time when African-American golfers were prohibited from playing virtually all of the Washington area's other segregated public or private golf courses, unless it was caddie day. Harold Ickes, then the Secretary of Interior under President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was a driving force behind getting the course built. Over its 70-year existence, the venue has attracted more than its share of famous black golfers, including heavyweight boxing champion Joe Louis, Hall of Fame baseball player Maury Wills and professional golfer Lee Elder, who once had a contract to manage the facility in the 1980s.
Ted Rhodes, considered one of the greatest African-American players in the 1940s and '50s, often played the course, which also was an annual stop on the circuit of black professionals who were unable to play regularly on the then-racially restricted PGA Tour. Calvin Peete and Jim Thorpe, who later did play on the Tour in the 1970s and '80s, also were frequent visitors at Langston early in their careers.
These days, the course, named for noted educator and politician Mercer Langston, is owned by the National Park Service and operated by Golf Course Specialists, a management company that also runs D.C.'s other two public courses -- Rock Creek Park and East Potomac. The man in charge of all three operations is Jimmy Garvin, who once worked on the maintenance crew at Langston while a student at Howard University. He now uses Langston as his home base and office.
The regulars who come out almost every day to either play, eat or simply socialize in the modest clubhouse say Garvin has done wonders for the conditioning of the golf course, as well as making the entire facility a hub of activity that includes three junior golf programs, a driving range, a short game practice area and a learning center for neighborhood kids and adults. The price also is attractive, about $37 including a cart on the weekends ($24 to walk) and $30 during the week ($17 to walk).
"With his calmness and his demeanor, Jimmy has also brought with him an atmosphere where people tend to respect each other," Boone said. "It's his personality, a nonconfrontational nature. He doesn't mind talking with you, and he doesn't just talk about doing things. He gets it done."
When Garvin first got to Langston as the general manager in 1991, he found a course in terrible condition and a clubhouse that had iron bars on all the windows and doors to prevent constant break-ins. Golfers arriving on several greens around the course often found that approach shots they thought were on the putting surface could never be found, mainly because neighborhood kids frequently slipped under the fence and added them to their own collections, often selling them back to other unsuspecting golfers back in the clubhouse parking lot a few days later.
"People were afraid to come over here and play," said Tony Burnett, the long-time groundskeeper at RFK Stadium who also is a Langston regular. "Now, it's not unusual to see a congressman or a senator show up. Jimmy went out in the neighborhoods and he got kids to come over here to learn to play the game or work around the course. We don't have those kinds of problems any more. It's a safe and friendly place, and in my opinion, one of the best kept secrets anywhere around here."
Garvin would also like to add a president to the list of luminaries who have walked Langston's fairways. He's already made inquiries to see if President Barack Obama might come out and play later this spring and he's confident the latest First Golfer will one day soon show up on the first tee.
"He'd be the first president to play here," Garvin said. "What a great thing that would do for all the kids we work with out here. Wouldn't that be something? I'm definitely working on it."
The new president, who took up the game a dozen years ago and more than occasionally breaks 90 when he does play, will find a challenging venue if he does decide to make the 10 minute drive from the White House to the course. Langston includes what Washington Golf Monthly magazine once described as "the scariest shot in beltway golf."
That would be a tee shot that requires a 200-yard carry to clear Kingman Lake on the 538-yard par-5 10th hole. There is a tough, 440-yard slight dogleg par 4 at No. 12, and the No. 1 handicap hole on the course is No. 3, a 520-yard par 5 that requires one shot over a creek and an approach to a small, elevated green.
Garvin considers Langston very much still a work in progress. Dealing with the federal bureaucracy as well as coming up with the necessary funds to try to make major course renovations and build a new state-of-the-art clubhouse and learning facility, as well another nine-hole children's course, are among the more frustrating parts of his job.
"It's a slow process, because you have to get private funds to be matched by the federal government," Garvin said. "Langston does remain in need of a major overhaul, but we make sure the golf course is as playable as possible every day, and the greens are always in great shape. People who play the course love the course, and we've really got a devoted group of golfers."
That would include members of the Wake Robin Club, one of the first social organizations for African-American, female golfers. There also is a regular Monday Morning Club that tees it up year round, including several golfers in their 90s who have been coming to Langston since the day the place opened.
On a recent January afternoon a few days before President Obama's inauguration, the temperature was in the low 20s with snow flurries spitting down. Nevertheless, a handful of well-layered golfers were out on the course. Inside the noisy clubhouse, several dozen regulars, including Burnett, were telling tall tales during a typically lively lunch hour, even in the dead of winter.
"Best cheeseburger in D.C.," said Burnett, who plays golf almost every day he can. "A lot of people have discovered this place, too. On the weekends, it's hard to find a place in the parking lot, and we're seeing people coming in from the suburbs, a real diverse crowd now. For me, it's a wonderful place to come every day. Don't know what we'd do without it."
"The golf course is an unrecognized jewel," Boone said. "I just enjoy going there, the whole feel of the place. Even when I'm not playing, that's where you'll probably find me. It's an atmosphere of congeniality and respect, and a place I can still break 80."
Eat your heart out, Denzel.
 Leonard Shapiro is a contributor to ESPN.com's golf coverage. He can be reached at Badgerlen@aol.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii -- Nestled among the likes of Vijay Singh and Davis Love III and Adam Scott upon the leaderboard at the Mercedes-Benz Championship is a dude named Will MacKenzie, which should prompt one question from even the most ardent golf fanatics: Who the hell is Will MacKenzie?
Will MacKenzie is, in job title only, a golfer, though he may not like to admit it. "Man, I don't really like golf too much," he said after shooting a second-round 70 that left him one shot off the lead on Friday. "Game's too tough."
Didn't look too tough at last year's Reno-Tahoe Open, when he claimed his first career PGA Tour victory in only his second full season. That's the direct reason for his trip to Kapalua this week, but indirectly his success began some 18 years ago.
It began because Will MacKenzie is an individual. At age 14, he went cold turkey on golf, quitting an intensive junior program in favor of other outdoor pursuits. Kayaking. Rock climbing. Heliboarding. When he was 19, MacKenzie moved to a small town in Montana, where he slept in his van for five years. At one point, he went 30 days in Alaska without showering. Lived in a cave. Got frostbite.
Then he watched Payne Stewart win the 1999 U.S. Open in his home state of North Carolina. "I started playing golf again. Did a little three-month little session in late '99, October, November, December to see if I sort of fell back in love with the game, which I did."
Will MacKenzie is a journeyman. After getting back into golf, he played the Canadian Tour, the Golden Bear Tour, the Hooters Tour and, finally, the Nationwide Tour, before making it through Qualifying School prior to the 2005 season.
And MacKenzie won on almost every tour he played. He may not have the pedigree of his peers, but that resume is pretty impressive.
Then again, outdoor sports still reign supreme. Will MacKenzie is a surfer. He looks and speaks the part of a modern-day Jeff Spicoli. But he admits he hasn't done much shredding lately, which is why he's taken it upon himself to get into "surfing shape" this week in Maui.
"I'm here to play golf, but I'm also here to catch a wave or two. I don't want to be out there chopping." After spending four straight afternoons in the Pacific, MacKenzie said, "I feel stronger in the water, like I can stay out there for an hour, hour and a half, paddle around and actually catch waves and drop into the right spot of the wave."
Will MacKenzie is a rube, at least when it comes to dealing with national media. In a post-round interview with The Golf Channel on Thursday, he made what he calls a "rookie mistake," revealing his room number for the week at the nearby Ritz-Carlton.
"I had quite a few calls," he said a day later. "Very inspiring calls. A lot of people that had seen me here or seen me there, plenty of people called me. Right when I got back to my hotel, my mailbox was full."
What callers found out is that Will MacKenzie is approachable. Before turning off the ringer on his phone, he actually fielded calls from some of those well-wishers.
"A lot of people were really cool about it," he said. "They called and said, 'Hey, Will, this is Jeff from Madison, Wisconsin. I saw your story on The Golf Channel, man, that was sweet. Keep it up.'
"I had one guy, it was a police officer in Wilmington, North Carolina, that got in a near fatal car accident, that said I inspired him a little bit to come back to his profession or something, which was phenomenal."
He's not all give, no take, though. Will MacKenzie is also a moocher. When asked what, other than golf, he has in common with second-round leader Singh, MacKenzie told the story of how he got his grub on during Friday's early weather delay.
"We both like pasta, [with] marinara, because I ate his second helping ... for lunch. He hooked me up. I was like, 'Where did you get that?' I think he specially ordered it. I'm like, 'Let me get that.' He's like, 'Go ahead.'"
Not that MacKenzie and Singh are too buddy-buddy off the course.
"I don't think he even knows my name," MacKenzie said. "He just calls me Bro. ... I was so bummed because [I've] wanted to play with that guy forever. Him and Tiger [Woods] and Phil [Mickelson]. You always want to play with the best guys out there."
Which leads to one last thing about MacKenzie. He's fun. A fresh new face for the fans, the PGA Tour and the game itself.
Who is Will MacKenzie? The best story in golf we've heard about in a long, long time.
Jason Sobel is ESPN.com's golf editor. He can be reached at Jason.Sobel@espn3.com
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
With his first public words since his life was shrouded in scandal, Tiger Woods issued multiple apologies, explained the reasons for his actions and discussed what his future may hold.
That still left us with many unanswered questions. Here are 10 that have yet to be asked:
• Where was Elin? 
Throughout her marriage, Elin Woods has never once granted an interview, never allowed herself to become part of the story. She continued that strategy on Friday, but her absence spoke volumes anyway.
What does it mean? How should we read into it?
In similar situations of disgraced celebrities in the past, many were flanked by a faithful wife, who showed support simply by showing up. By failing to follow these examples, Elin raised more questions about the current state of their marriage and her feelings toward Tiger.
He mentioned her on 10 separate occasions during the speech, each time leading to further questions about why she wasn't present, as well.
• What happened on Nov. 27, 2009? 
For nearly three months, rumors have swirled as to what exactly happened when Woods was involved in a single-car accident in front of his home. In his speech, he addressed these rumors -- sort of.
"Some people have speculated that Elin somehow hurt or attacked me on Thanksgiving night," Woods said. "It angers me that people would fabricate a story like that. Elin never hit me that night or any other night. There has never been an episode of domestic violence in our marriage -- ever."
OK, so that's what didn't happen. Fine. But it doesn't answer our question, does it?
• Why the prolonged silence? 
Within 48 hours of that post-Thanksgiving accident, public relations professionals from around the globe were offering free advice for Tiger through various media outlets.
The overwhelming message: Start talking. Get in front of the story before it spirals out of control, with gossip and innuendo taking over.
Woods opted to neglect these recommendations, of course, and his image became a PR nightmare. Now we're left to wonder if his public persona wouldn't be as damaged if he had only spoken up right away instead of 10 weeks after the fact.
• How come questions weren't allowed? 
Friday's speech lasted just more than 13 minutes and included 1,513 words. When it was over, Woods hugged his mother, Kultida, and a few friends and associates before exiting the room.
Only three journalists from wire services attended the event -- the Golf Writers Association of America voted to decline its three invitations -- but no one from the media was allowed to ask questions.
Sure, the strategy feeds into the notion that Woods and his handlers wanted to control all aspects of the meeting, but if he's prepared to go public and needed to come clean, why not take questions, many of which would have been the ones stated in this story.
• What is his addiction? 
Tiger has been receiving help for his "issues," as he referred to them.
"It's hard to admit that I need help, but I do," he said. "For 45 days from the end of December to early February, I was in in-patient therapy receiving guidance for the issues I'm facing. I have a long way to go."
He intimated that he would be leaving for further treatment and therapy on Saturday, but left untouched was what these issues actually are. It's been reported that Woods has been at a sex rehabilitation clinic called Pine Grove Behavioral Health & Addiction Services in Hattiesburg, Miss. Then again, it's also been reported that he had taken the drugs Vicodin and Ambien in the hours before his accident.
Is there a chance he is receiving treatment for more than one addiction? Tiger only denied using performance-enhancing drugs, but did not touch on these other reports.
• Will there be changes in Team Tiger? 
Years ago, Woods fired caddie Mike "Fluff" Cowan because he had become too overexposed, too big for his boss' liking.
Such a transgression appears innocuous compared with the enablers who have surrounded the golfer over the past half-decade. Which confidants knew about his affairs and which didn't? Of those who knew, did any try to convince him to change?
We may never have answers to these questions -- unless Tiger decides to clean house and rid his camp of those who have aided in his lifestyle. And if he doesn't, does that speak more to his loyalty or foolishness?
He shouldn't try to redirect any of the blame in this matter, but it's important that his supporters, well, actually support him right now.
• Why hold the speech at PGA Tour headquarters? Why leak driving range photos? 
You may be excused if, in the days leading up to his speech, you believed that Woods' return to the PGA Tour was imminent. How else were we supposed to take the news that his meeting would take place not near his Isleworth home or at Tiger Woods Foundation offices, but in the clubhouse at TPC Sawgrass?
For his part, PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem simply said: "We were asked to make the facility available and to help with the logistics. That's what we're doing."
And then there were the photos. On Wednesday, there was one of Woods jogging; one day later, three of him hitting golf balls on a driving range. The statement ostensibly was, "He's back!" Instead, he remains away from the game, leaving each of these decisions as head-scratchers.
• When will he return to competitive golf? 
This one is the million-dollar question -- or billion-dollar question, really, if you want to base it on Woods' career on- and off-course earnings.
Rather than issuing a return date, he only maintained: "I do plan to return to golf one day; I just don't know when that day will be. I don't rule out that it will be this year."
That indecisiveness should tell us two things: First, it won't be anytime soon. For those who still believe Tiger will tee it up at Augusta National in hopes of winning a fifth career green jacket, temper your expectations. Secondly, there's a very good chance that even Woods doesn't know when he'll be back.
We can guess, we can speculate, but if he doesn't know, there's no way anyone else knows, either.
• Has he been suspended by the PGA Tour? 
Suspensions in golf are more tight-lipped than members of the Skull and Bones society. The PGA Tour does not publicize any sort of player punishments, so unless said player goes public, the rest of us are left in the dark.
There is wording that players can be suspended for "conduct unbecoming" a professional golfer.
Do the actions of Woods -- and the subsequent backlash that they brought to the tour -- fit the bill? If so, it's possible that he could be currently suspended from competing in PGA Tour-sponsored events, which do not include tournaments such as the Masters or Tavistock Cup.
• What would Earl say? 
Tiger often referred to his father as his "best friend" prior to his death four years ago. Earl Woods, meanwhile, had lofty goals for what his son would mean to the world.
"He is the Chosen One," Earl once told Sports Illustrated. "He'll have the power to impact nations. Not people. Nations. The world is just getting a taste of his power."
Perhaps Earl would regret labeling Tiger with such entitlement. Maybe Earl would be furious that Tiger used such power to gain selfish pursuits. That's all hypothetical. Really, we'd like to ask Tiger: What do you think your dad would say about everything that has happened?
Like so many other questions, this is one that will remain unanswered for the time being.
Jason Sobel is a golf writer for ESPN.com. He can be reached at Jason.Sobel@espn3.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. -- Tim Clark was the odd man out. The ugly duckling of the Players Championship. The story I didn't want to write, the one you didn't want to read.
No offense to the diminutive South African, but entering Sunday's final round, the leaderboard offered intrigue galore, with many of the contenders providing headline-inducing tales.
Phil Mickelson? He would become the world's No. 1-ranked player with a victory. Lee Westwood? He would get that big-tourney monkey off his back. Robert Allenby? He would be the feel-good story, winning on Mother's Day one year after his own mother passed away.
By comparison, Clark's story simply wasn't as sexy as those of his peers -- a diagnosis that has nothing to do with a waddle that earned him the nickname "Penguin."
Prior to this week, he was best known for being the most talented PGA Tour veteran and most handsomely paid without ever actually winning a tournament. It was sort of his own little claim to fame, the only reason he received any previous recognition.
Hey, don't take my word for it. Ask him instead.
"I mean, a part of me is a bit disappointed because now no one is going to talk about me anymore," Clark joked. "At least you had something to write about before. Now I'm just another guy with a win."
And therein lies the major plotline to this saga.
Clark might not have owned the best back story on the leaderboard, but he is the eternal underdog, the little guy battling for respect and redemption on the game's biggest stage.
After all, you can only win so much money (he had earned $14.7 million on the PGA Tour alone entering this week) and in so many other places (he had triumphed three times on the European Tour, twice apiece on the Nationwide and Canadian tours and once at the Australian Open) before the beating heart of the winner's circle palpitates more audibly each week.
Clark has matured in the shadow of other, more successful players from his home country -- "I'm probably fifth on the pecking order down there," he says -- and stood idly by on eight separate occasions when his final result bested every player in the field but one, producing a reputation as a relentless runner-up.
"There was a part of me that thought, 'Man, what have I been doing?'" Clark said. "When you play that many tournaments, and suddenly when you have weeks where you feel like you've played well enough to win and you haven't, it gets a bit frustrating. I mean, I'm always happy for guys when they win; don't get me wrong. It's not a case of, 'What's he doing winning?' I've always been very happy for guys when they've won, particularly people that I consider friends of mine.
"But yeah, you do start to wonder when is it going to happen for me and what do I need to do to win, particularly when you feel like you've played well enough to win and you haven't. I guess that's the nature of this game. Sometimes you don't have to play your best to win tournaments. I think luckily for me this week, I did play my best. That's about as good as I can play."
Indeed, Clark proved that there's still a little magic in these 415 acres of erstwhile alligator-infested swampland, purchased by then-PGA Tour commissioner Deane Beman for the princely sum of one dollar in 1978.
We've seen this before. From Hal Sutton's "Be the right club today!" iron shot to Tiger Woods' "Better than most!" putt. From Greg Norman getting the white towel treatment from Fuzzy Zoeller to Davis Love III posting a sublime final-round 64.
For Clark, that momentous moment wasn't one shot, but a string of them, as he birdied Nos. 9 through 12 to stake a claim to a lead he would never relinquish.
Clark now adds his name to the list of champions who have prevailed in grand fashion, outplaying every other competitor en route to the title. On Saturday, his 6-under 66 tied for the best round of the day; on Sunday, his bogey-free 67 stood alone, more than 7 strokes better than the field average.
"It's such a demanding course," Clark said. "I think if you get into a zone and shoot a good score, I mean, it's going to separate you a lot more. You know, it's a course that's so tough. If you're a little bit off, it's really going to show and you're going to shoot over par. You can still shoot a low number.
"I think that's what brings the big separation. When you're playing great -- and I guess that's a testament to the course -- driving it in the fairway and hitting greens will pay off."
Same goes for persistence and perseverance and all of the other buzzwords Clark has heard used to describe him over the years. No longer, though, will he be considered a habitual runner-up, his image now enhanced with his name permanently engraved into the winner's trophy.
Finally.
So, big deal. It might not have potentially been the most captivating story of the week, but this tale of the ugly duckling will endure. It didn't end with a transformation to beautiful swan, though, instead simply resulting in a guy called Penguin enjoying some career-altering success.
Jason Sobel is a golf writer for ESPN.com. He can be reached at Jason.Sobel@espn3.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Paul Azinger owns a dozen PGA Tour victories, including the 1993 PGA Championship, but there's no doubt his legacy is an accomplishment that occurred without hitting a single shot.
He will forever be remembered as captain of the United States Ryder Cup team two years ago, guiding the red, white and blue to its first win in the biennial competition since 1999.
The man known simply as "Zinger" has also been known for speaking his mind throughout his career. He recently sat down on the ESPN.com Hot Seat to discuss whether he wanted the role again, why current captain Corey Pavin hasn't contacted him and how his unconventional approach to the position spurred the U.S. to victory at Valhalla.
Q: You're a published author now. Maybe I should just have you write something about yourself to save me the effort.
A: [Laughs] Well, I'm about a third-grade speller, so it may take you a while to get through it. This book, "Cracking the Code," was really a collaborative effort and I'm proud of it. I think I micromanaged every word in this book, so if there is bad spelling or anything that is controversial, I guess it was meant to be there.
We tried to make this book one that tells the story of how this whole thing unfolded at the Ryder Cup. It just kind of carries you along. It's not an instruction manual or anything like that, but it does have crossover appeal, because these are business principles that were applied to this event. We watched it all unfold on this big stage in front of 600 million people and I guess I'm responsible for orchestrating it. It just tells how I surrounded myself with people who could help me do everything to create what we thought was the best environment for the players.
All the while [I had] a plan in place, which was to use this militaristic approach, this Navy SEALs concept of taking the 12 guys and breaking them into small groups. Through observation, we personality profiled the players, understanding who they were, communicated with them according to their personality and then getting the heck out of their way and watching them do what they do.
We empowered them within their little four-man pods, gave them ownership of that and that's all told in the book. But in the end, it's up to the players to play great. We just tried to create the environment for them and just trust them in the end.
Q: How was the process of putting together the book? Did you enjoy it?
A: You know, I actually did enjoy it. It was frustrating at times. I think it's impossible for it not to be frustrating at times, if it's not going as quickly as you'd like or some of the things that you've edited come back and they're not as you would have liked them. It took a while.
I was with IMG at the time. They said they had this great literary division there at IMG and actually it didn't even exist; they had ferried it out to a guy who used to work there. And the advice we were getting from him was that it wasn't salacious enough and it needed more controversy. Somebody said it should be just a business book; others were saying it should just be a sports book. And finally we just kind of set all of that aside and [co-author] Ron [Braund] and I decided to publish the book ourselves.
All the while, we wanted it to have this great crossover appeal. It's a great sports story, but there were business applications -- just common sense business applications. We call the book "Cracking the Code," but it's not like we invented the code. It's just more of an understanding of what needs to be done to bring 12 guys together. You know, you only have three days; you don't have weeks and weeks to prepare.
How do you get 12 guys to bond in three days? What we decided was the best way to do that was to put them into small groups. That's what we went with and the book tells the story.
Q: You mention borrowing that strategy from the Navy SEALs. When did you first hear about the strategy and how difficult was it to implement?
A: I had watched this documentary years before I was asked to be the captain. I think the hardest part of this whole concept is that once I decided to do this and commit -- and I had talked to several people about it in total confidence and everybody loved the concept -- the trick was to sell the players on it.
So I literally became a salesman when the eight guys made the team after the PGA Championship, sold them on the idea that I was going to use the Navy SEALs technique, this militaristic approach to team-building by breaking them into small groups and letting them all know that there was no shortcut for success.
You couldn't hope for it or wish for it. It was going to be all about preparation, which I felt they understood. I guess I must have given a pretty decent sales pitch, because every single guy on the team embraced the concept. They were engaged and they were invested in it. And right toward the end, when it was time to make the picks, they were empowered and given ownership of their groups.
What we ended up doing was allowing these guys to pick who would fill out their four-man pod. At that point, these guys became a family and it was really fun to watch.
Q: There are those -- myself included -- who previously believed that the role of Ryder Cup captain was almost like that of a first-base coach. High-five the players when they win, give 'em a pat on the butt when they lose. Do you think you changed the definition of this job?
A: I'm not sure. Maybe a little bit. I think maybe the best thing that I ended up doing and where I really stuck my neck out was when I changed the way the team was picked and did a complete revamping of the selection process.
The rest of it seemed like common sense to me, with a little bit of prodding from my friend Ron Braund, who is a psychologist and a team-building coach who works with corporations. His whole deal was that relationships trump assets, meaning I want to put the guys together in their four-man groups based on like games; he asked me about like personalities, which I hadn't really considered.
We spent a few months talking about that before we decided to go in that direction, because I believed in it. So that part of being the captain just sort of seemed to make sense. Your tendency a lot of times is to put guys who bomb it with great wedge players, great putters with great iron players, but I just felt like we could go deeper than that. Ron convinced me that in pressure situations, if things go poorly, players' personalities need to mesh. When I say personalities, we didn't have them fill anything out; we just looked at these guys through observation.
What we ended up doing was just determining what their tendencies were and how they processed information. We found that guys who thought the same way and processed information the same way would come closer together in pressure situations rather than go in the opposite directions, like Tiger [Woods] and Phil [Mickelson], where they were on opposite sides of the fairway on things like that.
Why wouldn't I do all that? To me, that was just common sense. I don't know, maybe captains have done that in the past. I'm not sure. But I did not want to leave any stone unturned.
Q: Since the Sunday at Valhalla when your team won two years ago, has a single day passed when nobody has said a word about it to you?
A: Anytime I'm on the golf course or around a golf course, somebody says something. But what was really cool was that there were a lot of congratulations, but more thank yous. Hearing thank you, to me that really resonated and registered that America needed this. I mean, gas was four bucks a gallon, we were fighting two wars in the middle of a pretty heated political campaign with differing philosophies on how we want our government to work. It was just one of those things that for three full days, golf fans and even those who aren't golf fans were able to set all that aside and just embrace and enjoy what was going on out there.
Q: It's interesting that you say America needed this. Do you think the Ryder Cup needed it, too, after so many years of European dominance?
A: Well, we had only won three times in 25 years going in, we lost five of the last six, we lost three in a row and the previous two by record margins. I don't know that the Ryder Cup needed it as much as the American players needed it, because I really believe that the Ryder Cup was becoming a burden to the players. It was like the Presidents Cup was a safer place to be.
I mean, the Presidents Cup is more like an exhibition. I'm not trying to slight that match, but it's just not the same. The difference in the feelings toward the Ryder Cup is that America wants to win, but Europe -- it's in their blood, it's in their heart. You know what I mean? There's a big difference in the way they think.
The fact that it's in Europe's blood, that changes the whole dynamic of the event. When you're getting slaughtered every time, it's not a safe place for American players to be. They're getting scrutinized and second-guessed; the captains are getting pounded. And so the danger was that the players weren't going to be embracing the Ryder Cup anymore and they would maybe gravitate more toward the Presidents Cup, because they were winning more and it was more enjoyable and relaxed.
So I think this win was big for the American players. They've rethought what this Ryder Cup is all about. They've been able to compare the differences between the two events and that difference is night and day. The gap between the two events is as wide as the Grand Canyon.
Q: Did you want to stick around for another tour of duty this year?
A: You know, at first I didn't. And then after some reflection, I considered that there were two ways I could go: I could be happy and content and satisfied and just move on to the senior tour or I could be a risk-taker and take a chance and try again.
I decided that I wanted to do it again. I called the PGA of America and I lobbied, kind of at the 11th hour -- maybe even 11:30 -- and I lobbied hard to do it again. I told them I wanted to carry the flag to Europe, but I believe they had already talked to Corey [Pavin]. I think I was about a week too late, to be honest with you, and I think they had already made a commitment. They heard me out. I imagine they considered it, but I was too late.
Now I don't think I would ever do it again. I've written the book and I'm happy to tell the story, but everything would have been kept a secret if I had done it again. Maybe would have done it slightly differently; I had a plan in place that I laid out for the PGA of America. But it didn't happen and now I've decided that I'm satisfied and I'm going to sit back and start drinking out of a bamboo cup with a pink umbrella in it.
Q: I've read reports that current captain Pavin has yet to seek you out for any guidance or information. Is this true?
A: Yes.
Q: Are you surprised by that?
A: A little bit. I mean, all you need to do is just say, "If you have any ideas or suggestions whatsoever, just throw them my way. I'll be all ears." But I haven't heard anything like that. I know Corey was the assistant captain in 2006 and I think he was pretty close to getting the job in '08. I think he thought he was going to get it, but I stepped in and I lobbied pretty hard. I sold the whole Navy SEALs concept to Roger Warren, the president of the PGA at the time and the guy who was going to make the decision along with Brian Whitcomb, the incoming president. They loved it. And as a result, they asked me to be the guy. I don't know, I think it might have ticked him off a little bit, but that's just speculation.
Q: If he does come to you, what will you say to him?
A: I think at this point, it's getting a little late. We spent 18 months looking at 30 or so players minimum. At this point, there's no way that it could ever be done exactly the same. All I would say to Corey is that in the end, what can a captain do besides everything he can to create what he feels is the best environment for the players to be successful?
I mean, really, it's opportunity, challenge and responsibility. For me, the opportunity was to be the guy to get it right; the challenge was to figure out what was wrong; and the responsibility, first and foremost, was to the players. I wanted to do everything I could for the players.
If you put yourself first and it's about you, then you're pretty much screwed. It was all about the players for me. It was about representing the country. And I say that knowing all along that I'm going to contradict myself, because in the end it was all about me. In the end, I couldn't look at myself in the mirror if I didn't do everything I could for them. And I swear to God, that's exactly how I thought. I prioritized those guys, because I've been there. I've been scrutinized, second-guessed, ridiculed, and I knew that if it wasn't about them, it was going to fail.
And so what I would tell Corey is, create the best environment for them. I would tell [Presidents Cup captain] Fred Couples the same thing. In the end, though, trust them and get the hell out of the way, because it's all up to them.
Q: How's your game shaping up?
A: It's OK. I'm hitting it OK. I'm putting OK. It's just kind of mental. I'm not sure that I have the determination and desire to be hopping on a plane after 30 years. Maybe that will turn around.
Q: No, I've seen your golf game. I'm talking about foosball.
A: Buddy! I love it! Are you a fooser?
Q: No, but I know that's your game.
A: Dude, I love foosball. I became a pretty ferocious fooser. There's this underground cult thing going with guys my age who played foosball before "Pac-Man" put 'em out of business. I just love it. I still love it, but I don't go to bars very much anymore and play. I used to go out to bars until 2:00 in the morning and play foosball tournaments all the time for years, but I've kind of laid down a little bit on that.
Q: I remember hearing stories that you were even taking part in some local foosball tournaments during Ryder Cup week in Kentucky.
A: Oh, it's totally confirmed. I told that story at one press conference that on Saturday before the players arrived, I got a text message from a friend and he told me about this place right outside of town where they were playing foosball.
It was like walking into the house in that movie "The Silence of the Lambs." I was scared out of my wits. I walked in there and nobody knew me. It looked like dry ice all over the house, but it was smoke -- and I'm not sure it was all cigarettes. Kegs of beer and guys playing foosball. It was like a crackhouse for foosers. It was awesome. I stayed there for two hours, sweated my ass off, played foosball and nobody knew me. Awesome.
Q: Complete this sentence: If a few years ago, I had said to you, "I like your tweets," your response would have been __________.
A: I don't tweet.
Q: And now?
A: I like tweeting, actually. I threw out some killer tweets today. I got in a little bit of, I wouldn't say hot water, but I had 450 responses to my tweet [after Tiger Woods' withdrawal from the Players Championship due to a neck injury], saying, "Could this have been prevented with a good Swedish massage?"
This is a whole new social medium. I've been in it six weeks, maybe longer, I don't know. I look at tweeting like this: There are four ways you can tweet. You can tweet clichés like, "Hey, how you doing? I'm fine," which is terrible. You can tweet facts and information, which is occasionally necessary, but for the most part just awful. You can tweet questions, ideas and opinions, which is what I like to do, for the most part. Or you can tweet emotional responses, which is just a disaster that's always going to get you in trouble.
So I think ideas and opinions are a little more fun and a little more compelling. I wasn't trying to offend Tiger or mock him in any way; I'm a huge Tiger fan. I've been ridiculed in the broadcast booth ... because I'm such a huge fan. And I like Elin. I hate to see what's happened to those two and I wish the best for both of them. But I just thought that was funny.
Q: Speaking of Tiger -- and since I know you haven't been asked about him in at least the last 10 minutes or so -- give me the CliffsNotes version of what you think is wrong with his game right now and what his next move should entail.
A: Well, he's already made his next move. I think he needed to change coaches. Fundamentally, I think there's more forearm rotation than a guy with that much clubhead speed needs. I really believe that when he was playing his best, he didn't have all that forearm rotation. The best players in the world, the best ball strikers, always have their right arm above their left on the backswing and their right arm above their left on the follow-through. Tiger had his left arm above his right on the backswing. That's asking for trouble. You're asking to get stuck.
I knew when he was getting stuck on wedges, it was going to be frustrating. Then of course, he had the forced hiatus. So I think what Tiger needs to do is figure out the direction his life is going to go and who the real Tiger Woods is -- rewrite his constitution, so to speak.
It's likely that we'll see a few more months of trouble and struggles, maybe just five wins instead of 10. I still think he's going to break all of Jack's [Nicklaus] records. Vijay Singh's best years were in his 40s; Tiger is 34 years old. I just can't see where Tiger Woods isn't going to win 10 more major tournaments. Maybe eight more. We'll see. But there's no stopping him. He's just too good.
Jason Sobel is a golf writer for ESPN.com. He can be reached at Jason.Sobel@espn.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Who says that Tiger Woods guy always gets it done down the stretch? Making the turn during the final round of the Dubai Desert Classic on Sunday, Woods surmised that he needed to shoot a 7-under 30 on the back nine in order to force a playoff. Instead, he simply carded a 31 coming in -- 1 shot clear of the field, but 1 shot off his desired score.
Ha. Shows how much he knows.
Of course, that prediction was about the only thing Tiger did wrong for the second week in a row. The victory fueled even more speculation that Woods could be headed toward a historic season. Based on a few other recent events, it's led the Weekly 18 to begin with an idea about how unpredictably predictable his season could be. Doesn't make sense? Well, just keep reading.
1. Predicting the unpredictable?Two prohibitive favorites, Phil Mickelson and the New England Patriots, were defeated in Arizona on Sunday. Both incidents speak to the unpredictability of sporting events, reminding us once again why competitions aren't played on paper and trophies aren't handed out beforehand.
Of course, earlier on the same day, the closest we have to a sure thing in sports -- Tiger Woods -- accomplished what he always seems to accomplish, coming from behind to clinch the title in Dubai.
In the fallout of the day's big events, two things struck us as notable when considering Woods' past, present and future performances. First, in a realm that is utterly capricious, Woods' propensity for winning continues to amaze. He has transformed unpredictable events into predictable conclusions, surfacing atop the leaderboard so often that it's now become a surprise only when he doesn't win a tournament.
Second, though, is a reminder that when dealing with incalculable occurrences, there is no such thing as a guarantee. Let's face it: Since Woods won the 1997 Masters at age 21, he has been the best bet to claim a title every single time he's competed. And still, Woods' 28.7 winning percentage in PGA Tour events shows that he loses more often than he wins.
There is plenty of talk right now about golf's Grand Slam, with Woods himself saying that winning all four majors in this calendar year is "easily within reason." But let's not forget how completely unpredictable such events can be. We need only look at the first three winners of last year's majors -- Zach Johnson, Angel Cabrera and Padraig Harrington -- for a reminder of this notion.
In fact, it can be argued that, should Woods complete his stated goal this season, it would be one of the more unexpected conclusions in sports in quite a while. That's not to say it can't happen. Hey, if Lefty and the Pats can both lose on the same day, then anything can happen, right?
2. Century clubThis week's graphic to show just how dominant Woods has been lately? Another simple yet unbelievable one:


Count 'em up and you'll find that Woods is exactly 100 strokes under par in his past five events. All wins, of course.
3. Value of the EuroTechnically, Woods now owns 34 career European Tour victories  despite never having been an official member of the tour. That number places him third on the all-time list, behind Seve Ballesteros (50 wins) and Bernhard Langer (42), but if it seems a bit elevated, here's why: Majors and WGC events count as official events on both the PGA and Euro tours. Woods owns 13 major victories and 13 more in WGCs. Add in his eight wins at "regular" European Tour events and it explains how Woods has reached such a mark.
4. Ranked and filedWith his victory, Woods added 0.88 average points to his Official World Golf Ranking total. Meanwhile, Mickelson, who is No. 2 on the list, tallied 0.65 average points for his playoff loss. That means Woods now owns a 20.43-9.18 lead, doubling up on the next-highest ranked player for the 78th straight week. The streak dates back to the week of Aug. 6, 2006, when Mickelson trailed, 18.98-9.69, after winning the PGA Championship.
5. Wild  and crazyWant one more way of measuring Woods' success? The Wild Principle, an idea developed by ESPN.com reader Levi Wild of Dallas, which was introduced to the world through a recent blog entry. The idea is simple: If Woods (or any other player) wins by 2, he gets a plus-2 for that tournament. If he loses by two, he gets a minus-2. In 2007, Woods was minus-20 overall for the season. By comparison, Mickelson and K.J. Choi were minus-200 and minus-224, respectively. Expect the Wild Principle to receive a few tweaks -- numbers based on average per tournament rather than overall figures and a more discerning eye toward how missed cuts should be received -- but get used to it, because we'll be employing the simple yet effective tool quite often in this column.
6. Thursday driverPerhaps Woods should break his driver more often. On the first tee of Wednesday's practice round, he cracked the face of the club he's been using for the past year and had to employ a second-stringer the next day. "This driver, it's supposed to be the same, but it spins more," he said. "I had a hard time keeping it down." Uh, sure you did. In the opening round, Woods tied for the lead in driving accuracy (12 of 14 fairways) and was second in driving distance at 306 yards per drive. For the week, he was 39th in driving accuracy (55.4 percent) and second in distance (301 yards).
7. Bogey manMore than a year ago, Ernie Els stated his desire to unseat Woods as the world's top-ranked player -- part of a personal three-year plan. "If you look at where he is at the top of the rankings, it's a big lead, so no one is going to get near him anytime soon," Els said in December 2006. "I've got to give myself a three-year stretch to try to approach him and I really believe I can do it." Though Els is currently ranked fourth in the world, he's still a far cry from Woods, proving so once again during the final round on Sunday. Staked to a 1-stroke 54-hole lead (4 strokes over Tiger), Els shot a respectable 1-under 71, but faltered mightily down the stretch. He made three bogeys on the back nine, including at Nos. 11 and 12, on which Els missed par putts of inside 5 feet each time. "Those two putts really cost me the tournament in the end, yeah, because I played really solid coming in," Els said. Had he made each of those, the Big Easy would have forced a playoff with Woods, even with a closing bogey at the par-5 final hole.
8. Poul quotesSpeaking of potential competitors to Woods' throne atop the rankings, Ian Poulter made noise last week when he told Golf World (U.K.) magazine: "I don't rate anyone else. Don't get me wrong, I really respect every professional golfer, but I know I haven't played to my full potential and when that happens, it will be just me and Tiger."
One day after the story caused worldwide headlines, Poulter recanted, saying he was misquoted by the mag.
Reached by the Weekly 18 via e-mail, Golf World's editor, Chris Jones, only offered the official statement proffered to the media: "Ian's manager is happy with the interview as it appeared in the March issue of Golf World magazine, where Ian's comments can be seen in the full context they were intended. People should read the full interview, rather than the juicy sound bites picked up by the British media."
Sounds like a major game of he said/he said, one that may take some time to get sorted out. At least one man didn't care to hear the explanation. Asked to comment on the gap between him and Mickelson in the World Ranking following his victory, Woods deadpanned, "I thought Poulter was No. 2." Ouch.
9. Drink it inThough Woods tied Arnold Palmer's PGA Tour victory total at the Buick Invitational, Arnie can still claim one thing over Tiger: At least he has a drink named in his honor. Of course, it won't take long before Woods surpasses Palmer in this category, either. Gatorade Tiger will debut in March, featuring three different flavors: Red Drive (cherry blend), Cool Fusion (citrus blend) and Quiet Storm (grape blend). In case you haven't needed a 19th hole refreshment in a while, the Arnold Palmer is a blend of lemonade and iced tea, the favorite drink of the golfing legend.
10. Caddie cornerThere were rumors last year about Woods' caddie, Steve Williams, hanging up his sneakers, but they were proven to be unfounded. At the time, the name that was circulating as a replacement was Billy Foster, then Darren Clarke's looper, who had stepped in to aid Tiger at the 2005 Presidents Cup when Williams' son was born. Well, the story was half right; Foster was switching bags to another top player, but it wasn't Woods. He is now with Sergio Garcia, who has yet to play on the PGA Tour this season but is ranked 39th on the European Tour's Order of Merit following a T-46 finish in Dubai.
11. Kaymer timeHaven't heard the name Martin Kaymer yet? Well, time to get familiar with his game. With a birdie-birdie-eagle finish in Dubai, Kaymer (rhymes with Charlie Rymer) passed Els to finish solo second just two weeks after winning the Abu Dhabi Championship. It's part of a momentous climb for the 23-year-old German who is now No. 21 on the Official World Golf Ranking -- better than such players as Stewart Cink, Paul Casey and Retief Goosen -- especially considering he's never once competed in a U.S.-based event. That should change later this month, if he chooses to play in the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship, for which he is already qualified.
12. How the West was wonLoved seeing Lee Westwood using one of the oldest tricks in the book during Thursday's opening round in Dubai. His tee shot on the par-5 final hole wound up in a gnarly lie in the first cut. Though he had less than 200 yards to the middle of the green, it would have taken an act of brilliance to carve a high 3- or 4-iron into the green. So Westy used his head. He took out a 3-wood -- certainly too much club for that situation -- and belted one into the corporate hospitality tents beyond the putting surface. The ball bounded back toward the fringe, meaning he didn't even need the free drop, and from there Westwood got up and down for birdie to close out his round of 69.
13. Yo, HolmesHow did J.B. Holmes win the FBR Open this past week? With his usual power game, of course, though on measured holes he averaged "only" 302.5 yards off the tee -- ranking 13th in the field. But it was Holmes' putter that really helped him to his second career victory. Ranked 121st and 158th in putting average during his first two seasons, he took a mere 1.608 putts per greens in reg at the FBR, good for second in the field. That doesn't even include the 8-footer on the first extra hole against Mickelson to seal the win, Holmes' 22nd birdie of the week in 73 holes.
14. Holmes-ing inThe U.S. Ryder Cup team is in a state of flux. No, not because the team hasn't won since 1999 -- although, sure, that could have something to do with it. But the new points system works on a one-year basis (two years for majors) -- as opposed to two, the format used in the past -- giving the list a high amount of volatility each week. Case in point: While Woods, Jim Furyk, Zach Johnson and Steve Stricker remain the top four, Holmes crept into the No. 5 position -- up from 74th last week -- following his win on Sunday. D.J. Trahan, another '07 champ, checks in at No. 6, while Mickelson moved from 37th to ninth with his runner-up finish.
15. Two is a pattern?After starting his career with wins in seven of his first eight PGA Tour playoffs, Mickelson has now lost two straight. The loss to Holmes was preceded by last year's Nissan Open defeat at the hands of Charles Howell III. His other playoff loss came to Jesper Parnevik at the Byron Nelson in 2000.
16. Playing in the 'bandWas that John McEnroe circa 1979 playing in the FBR Open? Nope, just Ryan Moore, who eschewed his usual military-style Ping cap in favor of having his curly locks sprouting through a headband. Unfortunately for the former U.S. Amateur champ, he didn't have the same success as Johnny Mac during his U.S. Open-winning season. Moore shot 75-69 to miss the cut.
17. Cutting backFear not, Tim Clark fans. Though it seemed like a bad sign that the Scottsdale, Ariz., native wasn't entered in his hometown event, it wasn't due to the neck injury which hampered his 2007 season. Nope, there was a much simpler explanation. "I never seem to play well at Phoenix," Clark told us in a phone conversation last week. "For some reason, I've never really played the course well. I'm playing the next three weeks, though." Clark reports that he's feeling much better and actually learned something during his somewhat abbreviated season, during which he had three runner-up results in just 19 starts. Though he averaged more than 24 appearances per season from 2002 to 2006, Clark is planning to compete in only 21-23 tournaments this year in order to remain fresh.
18. Quote of the week"Is he? No!"
-- Sergio Garcia, sarcastically responding to a reporter when told Woods was atop the Dubai leaderboard on Thursday.
Jason Sobel is ESPN.com's golf editor. He can be reached at Jason.Sobel@espn3.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Even after watching the U.S. Ryder Cup team slap it around in Ireland, PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem can find reason to test golfers for performance-enhancing substances. Exactly how one would conduct examinations could pose difficulties because if our American heroes had been required to provide urine samples during the September matches, chances are they would have missed the bottle, creating a worse mess than the final score. But something will happen soon, with "soon" being a matter of record. "I will clarify exactly where we are within six months," Finchem said. "Maybe even before year's end."
Unlike virtually every other sport in this nation, golf has no defined policy regarding drugs. Also, golf would appear to be singularly blessed by not having a drug problem. However, that's exactly the line of thinking that prompts critics to accuse Finchem of being naive and having his head buried in a sand trap.
So at next week's tour policy board meeting, he and his people will continue drafting a manifesto Finchem characterizes as "pertaining to specificity." Joe Durant, among four players on the board, sees all merit and no danger in the process. "It's just another way to protect the integrity of our game," Durant said. "I don't think any of that is going on out here, but you can't just assume. My son, Hayes, is 8. Loves baseball. He asked me the other day, 'Dad, is it cheating if guys take drugs to help them hit home runs?' Kids are aware. I couldn't lie to him. So there you go. Let's put it in writing. For our fans, for our youth."
Then again, the very absence of "specificity" is part and parcel of Finchem's authority and always has been. He has unilateral powers other commissioners would kill for, starting with a "conduct unbecoming of a professional" clause in the PGA Tour player handbook. Finchem can fine, suspend or otherwise punish golfers without fear of reprisal from a union because the golfers have none. Every so often, a player might just vanish for a while without explanation. Alcohol rehab? Anger management? Impersonating a writer? Good luck on your fact-finding mission. The tour is very secretive. Without notice, Finchem can do just about anything he wants -- except get Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson to enter the Tour Championship.
But the PGA Tour wants so dearly to be other sports. Witness its latest affectation, NASCAR envy. So there will be an official drug policy, although there seems scant public outcry for preventive measures. Barry Bonds is under a cloud of suspicion as he chases Henry Aaron's home run record, but baseball just broke its attendance record for a third straight season. Shawne Merriman of the San Diego Chargers just got banished for four games, and everybody yawned because the NFL is king. David Stern, the NBA commissioner, recently opened his season by imploring his players to leave their guns at home. And you think Finchem is under stress to preserve his league's image? Not really, certainly not when his leading man, Tiger, says, let's start testing tomorrow.
So where's the beef? Primarily from the media because it is our duty to make sure all is well in the world. For some reason, most of the pressure is being applied by the Europeans. At a gathering during the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational in August, one of my lodge brothers from across the pond asked Finchem how he could know no golfers are taking drugs if he didn't test them. A fair question. Finchem stressed that golf embraces an honorable culture in which players penalize themselves with no one else looking. That didn't fly with the interrogator. Understand, I have many respected peers in the international media, but I wonder about their drug fixation. I mean, they all spend hours watching soccer. How, I ask, can you come away from a game with a 0-0 result and imagine either side using steroids?
Another persistent voice for drug tests belongs to Dick Pound, a windbag out of Canada who heads the World Anti-Doping Agency. Pound lectures all sports about hygiene, which is odd, for in his former life, he was lapdog to Juan Antonio Samaranch, the doddering little dictator who ran the International Olympic Committee. Nothing is as corrupt and hypocritical as the Olympic movement, but Samaranch's pedigree was perfect, too, because he was a sidekick of Spain's notorious Generalissimo Francisco Franco. "Yes, we have heard from WADA," Finchem said.
Not that the WADA chief is useless. On the contrary, he should work for FEMA. At the first warning of a natural disaster such as a hurricane, FEMA could bring in Pound and give him a bullhorn, and the population of an entire city would evacuate within minutes. On his worst day, Tim Finchem is more believable than Dick Pound. But a list of prohibited substances is pending, so by the 2008 Ryder Cup, there will be no hidden meaning when U.S. captain Paul Azinger talks about improving team chemistry.
Bob Verdi is a senior writer for Golf World magazine.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
It has been years since Conrad Dobler terrorized pro football, but his plan for last Sunday was like that of most Americans: He would be a hostage to Super Bowl XLI, although with somewhat divided loyalties. During a career when he was billed as "the dirtiest player in the NFL," Dobler once toiled with the New Orleans Saints, whose quarterback was Archie Manning. "A great guy, and of course, his son Peyton is the man with the Indianapolis Colts," Dobler said last week. "So it's hard not to pull for Peyton. Then again, I was born in Chicago. I don't have that problem in golf. When there's a tournament on TV, you know who I'm rooting for."
Indeed, whenever Phil Mickelson is out there doing his job, the Dobler family is watching closely, from a distance. "Never even met Phil, never even talked to him, although I would like to, for obvious reasons," said Dobler, who at one time assumed Mickelson's job was merely to hit a little white ball into a hole with a stick, then jump onto his private jet and count his money. But that changed the day the phone rang at Dobler's home in Leawood, Kan. It was Mickelson's lawyer, Glenn Cohen. "He told me Phil had become aware of our situation," Dobler said. "Phil wanted to pay for our daughter Holli's college education. A random act of kindness is the only way to describe it. Holli's a sophomore at Miami of Ohio, the school of her choice, because of one person: Phil Mickelson."
The Doblers were enjoying a Fourth of July in 2001 when life changed for Conrad, wife Joy and their six children. Friends were coming over to the house, and he was cooking when Joy fell out of a hammock. "She said she couldn't feel anything," Conrad said. "We phoned 911. She's been a quadriplegic ever since. We've had to downsize. The business we have, providing temporary medical help to hospitals, used to be a lot larger than it is now. I've had to sell a lot of assets, [it's] everything I can possibly do to make it financially. Holli's tuition would have been a big ticket." Because the NFL treats former players like pieces of furniture, Dobler's benefits from the country's richest league are meager. "Judging by our disability payments, we're America's safest industry," he said. "The greeters at Wal-Mart are taken better care of. Pretty ironic that a guy from another sport does more for us than the sport I played 10 years."
Dobler has endured multiple surgeries on both knees, but a lot of retired linemen are physical wrecks, and they don't have his expenses. The most he ever earned was $125,000 with the Buffalo Bills. He has put four times that toward Joy's rehabilitation. "That's why Phil's generosity is so unbelievable," he said. "When Glenn told me what was going on, I asked him, 'Why is Phil doing this for a complete stranger?' Glenn's answer was, 'Because he can.' Like I said, I've never even talked to Phil to thank him, but he's made me a better person. I've become accustomed to saying 'I'm sorry' for some of the things I've done. But if I ever hit the lottery, my first impulse would be to give a bunch of it away. That's what he's all about. I have a feeling he does a lot of this sort of thing. But he doesn't even want to talk about it."
Mickelson has gone public with his contributions of $100 per birdie and $500 per eagle to Birdies for the Brave, which funnels money to Homes for Our Troops and Special Operations Warrior Foundation -- organizations that support wounded soldiers and families who lose a member in combat. The more he promotes those causes, the more corporate cash comes in. But the Dobler case is different, and when asked about it last week in Scottsdale, Ariz., where he was playing in the FBR Open, Mickelson politely declined comment. He does communicate with Holli, who waits tables at school when she isn't cracking the books. She has a 3.8 GPA with a heavy course load. And she isn't studying sportswriting.
"Our daughter is forever grateful to Phil," Joy said. "I'll tell you how involved he is. Since he made his first donation of $20,000, he's made sure to include a cost-of-living increase each year. This year, his check was for $22,000. Next year, he's promised $24,000. If there's anything he's missing in his life, it's a set of wings. He's an angel. And if I can when I see him for the first time, I'm going to go up and give him a big hug. I have therapy five hours a day, seven days a week. I'm getting there. Parts of me that didn't move after the accident are moving again, sensations I didn't feel, I feel. I don't plan on being in this wheelchair forever."
Quietly, Mickelson has invited the Doblers to the Memorial tournament in late May. At last, Conrad and Joy will be able to give thanks in person. "I'd do anything for Phil," he said. "If I could get up and down a ladder, I'd paint his house."
Also, this is good news for Jack Nicklaus, because Mickelson is obviously planning to play golf that week.
Bob Verdi is a senior writer for Golf World magazine.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Stanford University likes to think of itself as the Harvard of the West, and perhaps rightly so. No doubt it is a demanding academic institution and a freshman in her third week of school is just as certainly overwhelmed by the adjustment from high school to college and frantically trying to figure out how to handle the enormous workload.
What's a girl to do? Well, in Michelle Wie's case it's to play the Samsung World Championship on the LPGA Tour.
Wie turns 18 years old on Oct. 11. That's also the day the Samsung starts at Bighorn Golf Club in Palm Desert, Calif., which is not exactly right next door to Palo Alto. Let's bypass the issue of skipping school to play in the tournament and focus instead just on the matter of how Wie got into the Samsung in the first place. She must have earned her way in, right? Wrong, despite the fact that it's a field of only 20 players, making it the most difficult event on tour for which to gain entry.
The good folks at Samsung, so determined to be one of the six sponsor's exemptions Wie is allowed to take each year, threw their lone available invite at her on May 15 -- before she had ever hit a shot in a competitive LPGA event this year. What they didn't know is that Wie's performance in 2007 would not only remotely justify a sponsor's invite to the Samsung, it likely will not attract any additional fans, either.
In seven LPGA events this year, Wie has missed the cut three times, withdrawn twice and finished 84th and T-69. In 15 LPGA rounds, her stroke average is 76.73 -- and that doesn't include when she withdrew at the Ginn Tribute while 14-over-par through 16 holes and quit early again at the U.S. Women's Open while 7-over after nine holes of the second round.  But more embarrassing for the Samsung -- and the LPGA -- than giving Wie a freebie into the tournament is whom her presence kept out.
Actually, this gets even better. The Samsung tournament is run by International Management Group, the super agency that directs the careers of Tiger Woods and Annika Sorenstam, among dozens of other players. IMG made a bid to be the agent for Wie but stepped aside and let the William Morris Agency -- a Hollywood management firm -- take the account because the Wie family demanded financial guarantees regardless of performance. That was not a promise IMG was willing to make.
So Samsung -- and IMG -- gave Wie the sponsor's invite in May and then watched in horror as her game imploded. At the same time, Sorenstam struggled back from a serious injury and is currently authoring her first winless LPGA season since 1994. When the cutoff date to qualify for the Samsung came along, Sorenstam had not earned her way in. Having already committed the event's lone exempt spot to Wie, tournament organizers did the only honorable thing -- they made up the rules as they went along.
To get Sorenstam into the field, tournament organizers created an exemption for "an active Hall of Fame member." Well, that certainly describes Sorenstam. Only problem is that it also describes Karrie Webb and Juli Inkster -- both of whom are higher than Sorenstam on this year's LPGA money list and are arguably more deserving of the newly created spot. Realizing this, Sorenstam behaved as the class act that she is and declined the spot.
The spot that would have gone to Sorenstam then went to the player next in line on the LPGA money list, which happened to be Sarah Lee. Now, the person who really gets burned by the Wie exemption is Natalie Gulbis who, if Wie were not in the field, would have gotten the spot as next on the money list behind Lee. So a player who won this year and is one of the best box office draws on tour gets knocked out of the tournament by a player who has not finished better than T-69. Anyone want to explain that to me?
Here is the other thing that makes this all a little awkward: Wie is no longer the 14-year-old phenom. On Wednesday she becomes just another 18 year old -- and 18-year-olds are no longer a rare commodity on the LPGA. An 18-year-old -- Paula Creamer -- has already become the youngest player to win a multiple-round LPGA event, taking the Sybase Classic in 2005. And another 18-year-old -- Morgan Pressel -- became the youngest to win a major at the Kraft Nabisco Championship earlier this year.
And there are more kids in the pipeline. One of the first stages of LPGA Q School this year was won last month by Ya-Ni Tseng, who is the same age as Wie, hits the fall even farther than Wie and defeated Wie in the finals of the 2004 U.S. Women's Public Links Championship. There are already eight teenagers who have LPGA cards, including Pressel and this year's likely Rookie of the Year, Angela Park.
Wie is no longer a novelty. She is now just one of many talented young women playing professional golf. Any reward that she receives from here forward should be earned and not given. It makes absolutely no sense that a tournament in which there are only 20 spots has a player in the field whose last victory -- in fact, only victory -- came more than four years ago while three deserving Hall of Famers and another bona fide star are shut out.
The LPGA, Stanford and even Wie would be better served if this particular teen were in a classroom this week instead of on the golf course -- exactly where all new freshmen are.
Ron Sirak is the executive editor of Golf World magazine.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Ask the greatest living golf-course architect what he does for a living and he'll tell you in all seriousness that he doesn't draw, he just digs holes.

 That's what Pete Dye told PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem in May, when Finchem called Dye's Delray Beach, Fla. home to tell him he had been named to the World Golf Hall of Fame.



Dye, a modest man, said to Finchem: "My Lord, you dipped to the bottom of the barrel and there I was. You pulled out a dirt digger."

 Three years earlier, in a phone call to the Dye home under less celebratory circumstances, Finchem complained that the Stadium Course at TPC Sawgrass that Dye built 25 years earlier was no longer draining well. Dye's response was to travel to Ponte Vedra Beach; dig up a large, moist plug of Stadium Course turf that showed years of organic buildup; and deliver it to Finchem's desk.

 "When he came in and saw that thing dripping all over his desk he was about ready to kill me," Dye recalled. "I told him, 'Mr. Finchem, it used to drain [just fine.]' "

 The result of that encounter was the renovation of the Stadium Course, directed by Dye, to coincide with the 2007 shifting of the Players Championship from March to May.

 Dye might tell this story Monday during his hall of fame induction ceremony at the World Golf Village in St. Augustine, Fla. Or he might recount any one of hundreds of tales he's collected in his nearly 50 years as a course designer and 82 years of living.

 There's the story of Dye's father, Paul "Pink" Dye, an Urbana, Ohio, businessman and postmaster who was traveling to Washington, D.C., in 1923 when his car broke down in Uniontown, Pa. Pink, while waiting for his car to be repaired, stumbled upon a 9-hole course on Mount Summit. Although he had never gripped a club, he borrowed some sticks, played a few holes and was firmly hooked. Back home, Pink recruited some friends and built the 9-hole Urbana Country Club on farmland owned by his wife's family.

 It was there that young Pete learned the game. More significantly, he developed a fondness for course maintenance. So when the course greenskeeper went off to World War II in 1942, Pete, who was 17 at the time, took his place manicuring the course.

 "I just loved that part of it," he said.









A couple of years later, Dye joined the Army. Eventually, he ended up at Fort Bragg, N.C., where he served as greenskeeper at the base golf course.

It was Dye's good fortune that one of the country's finest golf courses was a 30-minute drive from Fort Bragg. Dye played nearly every day at Pinehurst No. 2. There, he befriended course designer Donald Ross, who advised him on how to maintain the sand greens at Fort Bragg. Ross, in 1977, became the first architect admitted to the hall of fame. Dye is the fourth, with Robert Trent Jones Sr. and Alister MacKenzie being the other two. Pinehurst No. 2, says Dye, is his favorite non-Pete Dye course.

 After the war, Dye moved to Indiana, joined the insurance business and became a fine amateur golfer. In 1950, he married an even better golfer, Alice O'Neal, who has won more than 50 amateur championships. The Dyes had two children, Perry and P.B., and settled into a comfortable suburban life in Indianapolis.

Dye's insurance career boomed. He became the youngest life member of the Million Dollar Round Table. He also played a lot of golf and, as he puts it, "fussed" around with some basic design changes at his local country club.

 Around 1960, out of the blue, a local developer asked the Dyes to build a 9-hole course in south Indianapolis. For fun, they accepted the challenge. The course, called El Dorado, was the first to utilize new greens substructure specifications set down by the USGA -- which tickled Dye's agronomic mind.

The course featured 13 creek crossings. That brought some good-natured ribbing from some of their golfing friends. Pete and Alice Dye felt otherwise.

"We thought we had Oakmont for sure," Pete said.

 Once the course was completed, the Dyes returned to their normal lives -- until the day Harlan Hatcher stumbled upon El Dorado while driving through Indianapolis.

Hatcher, the University of Michigan president, loved the course. At the time, he was planning a links for the UM campus and was weighing whether to hire Robert Trent Jones Sr. or Dick Wilson, two of the country's top architects at the time.

 Instead, he chose the Dyes.

 To this day, Pete Dye remains astounded that Hatcher picked him, a neophyte, for the job.












"It changed my whole life," he said. "I was about to take over the Connecticut Mutual Insurance Co. Instead, we ended up doing the Michigan course, and we've been digging up other people's property ever since."

 Dye had no formal training, so he did what most beginners do: He copied other architects. For the UM course, called Radrick Farms, he borrowed from Jones Sr. -- so much so that years later Jones Sr. kidded Dye about it, saying, "Pete, I believe you've done a lot of fine work, but I believe that course at the University of Michigan is your best."

 Dye knew he needed to develop his own style. Once he and Alice committed to the profession -- they were in their mid-30s at the time -- they studied the East Coast courses, like Shinnecock Hills, and then left for Scotland, where they played all the famous courses, and many of the lesser-known ones as well.

At Prestwick, Dye saw for the first time how railroad ties -- called "sleepers" there -- were used as bulkheads to keep eroding sand in place. He marveled at the pot bunkers, the natural grasses, the undulating fairways, and the small, quick and sharply contoured greens.





"You get a whole different concept of the game, a whole different concept of strategy, a whole different concept of how they maintain the courses and everything else," he said.

 Back home, the Dyes quickly put their new knowledge to work by building Crooked Stick Golf Club in 1965 -- a taste of Scotland in Indianapolis.

Since then, the Dyes have built more than 100 courses. Some -- the Ocean Course at Kiawah Island Golf Resort; the Stadium Course at TPC Sawgrass; Whistling Straits; Harbour Town Golf Links; PGA West Stadium Course; and, his favorite, Teeth of the Dog in the Dominican Republic -- are famously challenging tracks, even for the top pros. They have hosted Ryder Cups and major championships.

 When the first Players Championship was held at the Stadium Course in 1980, the pros whined about the fast greens. Dye says they were only an 8 on the Stimpmeter -- 11 or 12 is not unusual today -- and points out that Jerry Pate won the first tournament at 8 under par. Still, after the second year, Dye modified the greens on two occasions.

 Similarly, when the PGA Tour played the Bob Hope Classic at the PGA West Stadium Course in La Quinta, Calif., some players thought the course was unfair and vowed not to return, a promise many have kept. But the course remains popular with amateurs -- especially women -- and has hosted numerous other professional events.

 Dye says he was bothered by the complaints, but soldiered on, determined not to change his style. Over time, the players softened their views. Today, Dye's Sawgrass course is universally admired.

Says tour regular and Dye fan Jerry Kelly: "Everyone complains about something different at first, until you learn to fall in love with the nuances that make it great."

Jack Nicklaus, a longtime friend, believes Dye has a singular, well-intentioned purpose.

 "He wasn't trying to be popular," Nicklaus said. "He was trying to challenge [the players] at the game of golf. If someone is yelling at you, you must be doing something right. And his golf courses have produced some pretty good champions."

 Kelly calls Dye "the original maverick."

 "He changed golf architecture. Anyone can copy someone, but to be the first, that's pretty special."












As hard as Dye's courses are for the pros, they're clearly more difficult for the average golfer, a phrase he disdains. He says he builds his courses for players who want a unique and challenging experience -- an experience they will remember.

In 2007, more than 38,000 rounds were played at Harbour Town, a public course, and Sawgrass is hugely popular as a once-in-a-lifetime destination course for golfers who will gladly pay the $335 greens fees for the opportunity to play a track that hosts the best players in the world once a year.

Said Dye: "Whoever that guy is, that's the guy I build for. And there are a lot of them."

Arthur Hills, who is also on the short list of great golf course designers, had high praise for Dye's work.

"I think of Pete like Picasso -- somebody that has created a non-traditional design, whether it's a painting, a sculpture or a golf course," Hills said. "He was so innovative in a profession that is very traditional."

 Numerous course architects working today have been influenced by Dye, including his sons, two nephews and a niece.

 But his most famous pupil is Nicklaus.

 "If I hadn't started with Pete, I'd be a different designer today," Nicklaus said. "Or not a designer at all."

 Friends from their amateur golf days, Nicklaus first worked with Dye when Dye built The Golf Club near Nicklaus' hometown of Columbus, Ohio, in 1967. Soon after, Nicklaus secured the Harbour Town contract for Dye from a friend, Charles Frazier. Nicklaus served as Dye's consultant on the project, making 23 visits while playing a full schedule on tour. Dye, as was his custom, lived on site.

Nicklaus said neither he nor Dye made money on the project.

"But we learned so much and had a great time doing it," Nicklaus said

 Dye's cohort, of course, from Day 1 has been his wife Alice. Perry, their eldest son, says it wouldn't have been a stretch for the Dyes to enter the hall of fame as a couple.

 "But one person usually gets all the credit. And no one deserves it more than my dad."

 But yet, he said, "My mom's opinions weighed heavily on a lot of the design decisions."















Alice Dye's most notable contribution was her input into the 17th island green at Sawgrass -- arguably the most famous hole in golf.

 Pete, naturally, revels in telling the story.

"I told Alice we have this area where we're going to put the par-3 17th and we don't have anything but water," Dye explained. "She said to me, 'Throw a bulkhead out in the middle of it and put some sand and dirt on top on it.' A light went on, and that's exactly how it [happened]."

 Come Monday in St. Augustine, another light will shine brightly on Dye. Nicklaus, the sport's most accomplished golfer, believes that one of the greatest designers has been ignored too long.

 "I say better late than never, but later than it should have been. He's had an amazing impact on the game."

 Dye will not hear of such talk. Getting him to comment on the honor is a chore.

Finally, he concedes, "I'm thrilled to be a part of it."

 No matter his age or his accomplishments, immediately afterward, Dye will return to work. He's 2½ years into his latest job, a resort course in French Lick, Ind., which he calls his biggest project ever. Then he'll turn his attention to another TPC course in San Antonio.

 After that, who knows? But if there's a hole to be dug, a pile of dirt to be moved and a course to be built, it will be hard for Pete Dye to say no.










George J. Tanber is a frequent contributor to ESPN.com's golf coverage. He can be reached at george.tanber@iscg.net. 
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
"Tiger Woods, you suck. God damn it!"
Those might have been the harshest public comments to date about the man who was making his much-anticipated comeback to golf from a self-imposed four-month leave of absence triggered by the eruption of a tawdry sex scandal. The source? Woods himself -- the born-again Buddhist -- on the sixth hole Saturday at the Masters.
Only five days earlier, when Woods faced the media for the first question-and-answer session since his shocking and swift fall from grace, he had pledged to try to "not get as hot when I play" and to "be more respectful of the game and show appreciation for the fans."
His jarring outburst seemed to suggest Woods had failed to change and had acted contrary to what's believed to represent Buddhist teachings. But did he?
"Buddhism teaches that a craving for things outside ourselves causes an unhappy and pointless search for security," Woods said during his Feb. 19 statement, his first public utterances since the scandal came to light. "It teaches me to stop following every impulse and to learn restraint. Obviously I lost track of what I was taught."
In his comments, Woods made it abundantly clear that recommitting to the religion of his childhood would be a crucial part of becoming a better person on and off the golf course. With more scrutiny on Tiger than ever before, critics were quick to dismiss the idea that Woods had changed, forgetting that breaking long-established habits doesn't happen overnight.
So how might the journey to correct the error of his ways occur?
"Buddhism is a religion of experience that takes time to learn," said Jonathan Bradley, the president of the New York Diamond Way Buddhist Center and a student of the Karma Kagyu tradition of Tibetan Buddhism for 13 years. "It's the development of our fullest human potential.
"Practicing Buddhism starts from understanding that we are responsible for our reactions and the causes that create the circumstances we experience in the future," he said. "There's a teaching called 'karma cause and effect,' which says that from this moment forward, we have the ability to change through becoming more aware of our minds in the present. But it's a process. So if Tiger Woods is applying the teachings sincerely, he'll get the results over time."
Just minutes into the CBS broadcast of Saturday's action, Woods' unsettling outburst blared into the microphones surrounding the sixth tee box and, consequently, the televisions of the millions of viewers.
While many watching at home scrambled to rewind their DVRs to ensure Woods hadn't uttered a much stronger word, CBS' Jim Nantz scolded Woods for that thing-he-vowed-he-wouldn't-do. (To be clear, Woods actually hedged in his Monday statements by saying he would "try" to limit his on-course tantrums.)
Surrounded by the intoxicating dogwoods along the hallowed fairways of Augusta National, Nantz expressed his "disappointment" and presented a flurry of biting questions to analyst Nick Faldo about what he perceived to be Woods' breaking his word. Simultaneously, the Twitter-sphere exploded with 140-character sound bytes, ranging from outrage to jokes to snarky criticism that Woods' language was contradicting Buddhist values.
Before Woods could stomp up the seventh fairway, where another, less pronounced "Dammit!" slipped, the now-infamous "Tiger Woods, you suck!" video had been posted on YouTube and was making its way around the blogosphere -- along with fiery comments both defending and chastising him.
Would a Buddhist consider Woods' outburst to be against the religion's teachings? Not necessarily.
"People shouldn't be too harsh on [Woods]," said the Venerable Dhammadipa Fa Yao, the abbot -- or spiritual leader -- of Chuang Yen Monastery in Carmel, N.Y. "If he wants to yell, it's his way of expressing his emotions. It doesn't mean he's not Buddhist. As a human, we can't expect him to be perfect.
"From a monk's perspective, there are two thoughts, the first being that he shouldn't have done that because it spoils the image of Buddhism. Another would say everyone has their own karma. He should do as they like as long as it doesn't intentionally hurt anyone else."
Another interpretation? Live and learn.
"Everybody makes mistakes, but it's how we react to them," Bradley added. "Buddhism leaves you with ways to reflect on them. When the outcome of our actions isn't ideal, we'll try to act differently the next time. It's not a good idea to have temper tantrums. But it's not a moralistic thing; it's just a piece of advice."
Raised as a Buddhist from childhood by his Thai mother, Kultida, Woods confessed to straying from his spiritual practices in recent years. "I'd gotten away from my core values," he told ESPN's Tom Rinaldi on March 21 in his first interview since the scandal broke. "I'd gotten away from my Buddhism. And I quit meditating."
A 1996 Sports Illustrated profile of the then-20-year-old Woods implied he practiced his religion seriously. The story went on to say that every year around his birthday, he visited a temple with his mother and wore a gold Buddha around his neck.
Of the millions in America who watched the Masters on Sunday, only a small percentage are Buddhists. As a first-generation Chinese-American, I grew up with my family practicing some Buddhist traditions. So I knew there was more to it than the "core values" statements Woods reiterated over and over through his public comments over the last two months. And I wasn't going to grasp it by reading about it at home or listening to El Tigre.
My mother, who considers herself a Buddhist and meditates every once in a while, kept chiding me, saying I was being too critical of Woods and should forgive him. I tried to explain that wasn't the point. He had disappointed and deceived so many people. How could we believe anything he said?
A lesson in meditation, she said, would help remove these negative feelings. My interest was surprisingly piqued.
Could understanding the power of meditation explain why, when Woods abandoned it, he turned into such a cad that he sent crude text messages to women not called Mrs. Woods? And what makes someone a Buddhist? Coincidentally, a meditation retreat taught by Fa Yao started the upcoming weekend. Sign me up! Gulp.
For three days, a before-dawn wakeup call came from the banging of a gong. With very little human contact and no food after noon, we listened to lectures about Buddhism and practiced (or tried) meditation for most of the waking hours. It's not easy. My legs and back ached from sitting in the proper posture just 15 minutes into a 3-hour session. (It's karmic suffering, and we have to train our minds to will it away, Fa Yao said.)
The first technique taught actually was applicable to my attempt to feel compassion for Woods: I first had to visualize myself being happy, then go through the same exercise with close family and friends. Eventually, I worked my way all the way to someone like Tiger Woods.
So what could Buddhism, and meditation, do for him?
"[Woods] can study morality, establish focus and avoid distractions, which will help him see everything in a clearer manner," Fa Yao said. "With a clear mind, he can understand what he did to hurt others and learn more about himself through the Buddhist teachings. Then he will have less anxiety and concerns and be able to see reality more clearly in the present and make better decisions."
So is there a specific type of meditation that helps recovering sex addicts cope?
"There's a technique called '32 Body Parts,'" Fa Yao said. "He needs to understand the body is a component of 32 different parts -- the eyes are one part, the heart is one part, the nose [is] one part. Then when he visualizes them that way, he won't be aroused and won't think about the beautiful form."
On Monday of the Masters, when he was asked whether he might have played even more brilliantly during his career had he not drifted from his principles, Woods replied: "I would like to say yes. I would be more centered, more balanced, and that's what I'm headed toward. I just lost that and unfortunately lost my life in the process."
As a Buddhist would acknowledge, Woods has made progress just by identifying his mistake, which is the first step on the journey to regaining his center. Interestingly, the word "meditation" in Tibetan is "gom," which literally means "becoming familiar with" or "getting used to," Bradley said.
When Woods made his way to the first tee in the opening round at Augusta National, he looked different -- perhaps it was the small army shadowing him to deflect the slim possibility of unseemly disturbances, or perhaps it was the nervous smile on his face.
Throngs of spectators flocked to watch with tense anticipation, politely applauding. No one knew what to expect from the "new Tiger." He had endured rehab (but won't say for what), and seemed calmer and friendlier.
Moments before his 1:42 tee time Thursday, a slight disruption came from the skies. A small plane hovered above, carrying a banner that asked, "Tiger: Did you mean Bootyism?"
Woods denied ever seeing the plane and instead striped a perfect drive down the middle. He sauntered down the fairway and didn't forget to acknowledge the crowd, smile and utter thank-yous.
In the final round, other than a "Jesus!" and a "Come on, Tiger!" comment, he stifled his notorious tantrums despite playing the first five holes in 3-over par.
Near the end of a tumultuous Sunday, Woods flew the pin on the 17th green. He scolded himself with an indignant "Tiger!" and turned away before passing off the club to his caddie.
Five months ago, that club might have gone flying into the gallery followed by a series of expletives. But this Tiger stopped himself and looked down -- maybe at the Buddhist bracelet (which he said is for strength and protection) that he started wearing on his left wrist.
As the week progressed, the mental fatigue caught up with Woods. He showed less poise and composure, but he refrained from dropping f-bombs and chucking clubs. At times he let the club hit the ground with disgust, but certainly more delicately than "old Tiger."
Sure, Woods blurted out some choice words over the weekend, but even his reactions to good shots didn't have the same gusto. Even in the final round when he holed out for eagle on the seventh hole, he seemed subdued. There were no crazy fist pumps as in the past. He simply threw both arms in the air and smiled. Overall, he stayed relatively even-keeled.
Woods wasn't flawless, but contrary to what some critics believe, he didn't necessarily flout the pledge to tone down his emotions on both extremes. He promised he would "try" to hold back his negative outbursts.
When he slipped, he was reacting naturally to hitting poor tee shots. Do we want Woods to turn into someone he's not? (Which, mind you, would probably be more offensive than the foul language.) We just don't want him to be a jerk.
Tiger isn't going to wake up and miraculously be rid of all his bad habits -- ones that have been 34 years in the making. Perhaps we should remember that and give Woods a bit of a break.
Oh, wow. Did I just write that? The meditation retreat must be working.
Stephanie Wei is a freelance golf writer.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Dwight D. Eisenhower, the 34th president of the United States, followed a precise protocol at Burning Tree Country Club. He would take a dozen or so practice shots off the first tee and, when he felt properly warmed up, point to the one that had flown farthest and straightest and say, "I'll take that one."
Another example of executive privilege: any putt inside three feet (and sometimes longer) was a gimme. The Secret Service shagged any wayward slices into the woods guarding the fairways. Ike spent so much time at "The Tree" that a hotline was installed between the White House and the pro shop. One weekend in 1952, it is said, leading Republicans approached Eisenhower at Burning Tree and lobbied him to run for president.
Set on the western edge of the District of Columbia, in suburban Bethesda, Md., Burning Tree is 244 exquisitely manicured acres and fewer than a dozen miles from the epicenter of the nation's capital. The club opened in 1923 after, the story goes, a male foursome from the Chevy Chase Country Club was stuck behind a slow-playing group of female golfers.
During its salad days in the 1940s, '50s and '60s, Burning Tree reeked of political power. Presidents were extended honorary membership and many accepted: Franklin Roosevelt, Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson and later Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford and George Herbert Walker Bush (along with his impressive 11-handicap). Supreme Court Chief Justice Warren Burger played at Burning Tree, as did House Speaker Tip O'Neill. William Randolph Hearst was a member, too. Even after Edward R. Murrow was informed on the 10th tee that the Japanese had bombed Pearl Harbor, the veteran journalist played on.
Today, easing into its 81st season, Burning Tree Club is a timeless place. That is to say, the past is omnipresent. There is a faded, sepia-tinged tone to the grounds; the antique clubs of famous men are displayed on the walls. The attitudes and prevailing world view are of a different time as well.
Burning Tree, you see, is an all-male organism, the classic old-boy, blue-blood men's club. The initiation fee is $75,000 and membership -- capped around 600, including honorariums and golfers past their playing days -- is by invitation only. The membership list never has been made public. But if you are a woman with the financial goods and the game, forget about it.
When Sandra Day O'Connor became the first woman ever appointed to the Supreme Court in 1981, she ended a streak at Burning Tree; previously, Supreme Court justices had always been extended honorary memberships to the club. Despite her polished 12-handicap, cultivated on the challenging layouts in Scottsdale, Ariz., O'Connor never crossed the threshold.
Burning Tree in the new millennium has lost much of its political capital. Sitting presidents no longer play there. Senators John Warner (R-Va.) and Don Nickles (R-Okla.) are among those that pass for the club's high-profile members, along with CBS newsman Robert Schieffer, Motion Picture Association chief Jack Valenti, television personality Bryant Gumbel and Supreme Court justice Antonin Scalia. Most of the members are more anonymous lawyers, lobbyists and businessmen. The club, not surprisingly, tends to attract more Republicans than Democrats.
Somehow, Burning Tree has flown under the radar of the women's groups who have protested the all-male membership at Augusta National, home of this week's Masters golf tournament. Martha Burk, chairwoman of the National Council of Women's Organizations, suggested that Augusta holds more influence and is, therefore, a more viable target.
"In terms of the real power centers, corporate America, Augusta is, as they say, where it's at," Burk said last week from her Washington office. "Burning Tree functions mostly as a local golf club. The fact that members of Congress play there ... it's a local club right down the street. It's not like it's some national icon."
But, she added, "Membership at Burning Tree is becoming less and less acceptable."
Charles Briggs is the club's general manager. He listened politely last week when asked why Burning Tree had not been challenged recently by women's groups. There was a long pause.
"We have no comment," Briggs said evenly. "Sorry about that. We both have jobs to do, and this is a good one for me. No comment. That's our answer."
'A great day-care center'
Beyond the no-women membership policy, women are not even allowed on the grounds as guests. For many members, Burning Tree functions as their second or third club so they can socialize with the opposite sex at other golf venues.


Even a few hours after a splashy press conference, Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.) was still amped. Winding into her seventh (or eighth) paragraph about the insidious nature of all-men's clubs, a reporter tried to wedge in a word edgewise.
"I haven't finished my thought," Maloney continued last week from her Washington office. "I think it is wrong. Some of our colleagues are members of these clubs and they should be pushing to change their policies. If the major national leaders of this country don't understand that belonging to these clubs is wrong … it sends the wrong message about values of discrimination and fairness."
While the press conference, attended by the now notorious Martha Burk of the National Council of Women's Organizations, was aimed at Augusta National and this week's Masters golf tournament, the House resolution introduced by Maloney and 14 co-sponsors also applies closer to home: Burning Tree Club in Bethesda, Md.
The non-binding resolution calls on top federal employees -- those in Congress as well as the executive and judicial branches -- not to join private clubs that discriminate on the basis of race or gender. Neither Augusta National nor Burning Tree were named in the wording of the resolution but it is well known that Amo Houghton (R-N.Y.) is a member at Augusta National and Senators John Warner (R-Va.) and Don Nickles (R-Oklahoma) are members at Burning Tree.
None of the three have made any public indication that they are considering a resignation from their clubs.
"By virtue of being in public office, we are obligated to adhere to a higher standard of conduct, one that reflects the American values that discrimination is wrong," Maloney said. "I guess we shouldn't be surprised the way the world is. There's a new [Census Bureau] study that shows women are making 76 cents on the dollar, compared to men. And, very few women make it to the board room. This isn't about letting women join men at a few fancy clubs. It's about the glass ceiling, the wage gap, the occupation gap and a kind of discrimination by Augusta and like clubs that helps continue this injustice.
"It must stop."
-- Greg Garber

There are no women's facilities at the club. Female taxi drivers are not allowed inside the gate. When a woman flying a small plane crashed near the 18th hole in the 1950s, Burning Tree employees quickly secured an area around the pilot and wreckage until the police arrived, when she was removed from the barbwire-protected grounds. When a female Secret Service agent announced herself at the gate in the mid-1980s -- she was working a security detail for the visiting Australian prime minister -- she, too, was turned away.
Interestingly, African-American male members have been welcome for decades, well ahead of Augusta National's inclusion of blacks in the early 1990s.
Each December, however, wives of members are permitted to visit the pro shop -- so that they might select gifts for their husbands. The hours are 9 to 11 a.m. on weekdays, by appointment only. There are cashmere sweaters, with the imperial Burning Tree crest, golf equipment and Christmas figurines.
"I'm fortunate to be able to let the women come in," said Max Elbin, Burning Tree's pro emeritus told the Washington Post in 1995. "I tried to get a cocktail party, but they said, 'No, we don't want the women around for cocktail parties.' "
Today, Burning Tree is a monument to progressive thinking: the women are allowed to attend a spring cocktail party.
Jane Vieth, wife of member G. Duane Vieth, a Washington lawyer, told the newspaper's Style section, "I don't know what wives would do without it. It's such a great day-care center. It's simply wonderful for them to have a place to go, even if they can't play golf any more. There are a lot of them who've gotten sort of decrepit. They go to have lunch, visit with their friends and play gin rummy."
It is said the action at the cribbage table is sometimes more lively than on the course itself, which is neither long nor a particularly challenging par-71. The active local golfers, according to reports, constitute about half of the total members. There is no employee charged with making tee times; even on a Saturday morning in the spring, there are no lines. Members simply warm up and walk to the first tee.
The clubhouse is an elegant Tudor study in brick and fieldstone and many of the homes in the surrounding area list for seven figures. But unlike most country clubs, there are no children's voices and the splashing of the pool, no echo of ground strokes on clay tennis courts. The clubhouse serves only breakfast and lunch.
The estrogen-free atmosphere comes at a dear price -- something approaching $1 million a year.
Back in 1983, Maryland's Attorney General, Stephen H. Sachs, filed a lawsuit against Burning Tree Club, claiming that its policy of excluding women was "arbitrary, invidious and irrational." The suit called for the Montgomery Country Circuit Court to revoke the real estate tax abatement granted in exchange for preserving open space. The state's complaint essentially argued that the tax break made the government a partner in sex discrimination, a violation of Maryland's constitution.
Before a woman judge ruled six years later against the club, Burning Tree paid only $13,000 of $186,000. After the judgment, members -- who declined to change the membership policy -- picked up the considerable tab which has reportedly risen to nearly $1 million per year for the property that is assessed in excess of $20 million.
When he was the vice president, serving under the elder Bush, Dan Quayle was asked about Burning Tree's policy of no women members. Quayle, a Republican and honorary member, told the Associated Press, "I've played there before and I'll play there again."
He added, "I'm not going to protest Burning Tree. Maybe they'll change. I think it would be a good idea for them to take women into the club. I don't have any problem playing there in the meantime."
Quayle, now 56, works for an investment firm in Phoenix, Ariz. He could not be reached for comment.
Second thoughts
HBO's Emmy Award-winning "Real Sports" profiled Martha Burk in December 2002. Host Bryant Gumbel, who interviewed Burk for the segment, did not disclose that he was a member of Burning Tree, which like Augusta National does not admit women members.
Gumbel and HBO were criticized by various media outlets, which charged omitting that information constituted a conflict of interest. Gumbel, according to reports, convinced HBO executives that mentioning his membership would detract from the Burk feature. HBO defended its decision, but in March, when Gumbel presented a segment on the economic impact of the Burk-Hootie Johnson conflict in Augusta, he stated twice that he was a member of Burning Tree.
While Gumbel still maintains that membership, others have backed away from all-male clubs. John W. Snow resigned from Augusta National as soon as President George W. Bush nominated him to succeed Paul O'Neill as Secretary of the Treasury. The late Thomas Wyman, former head of CBS, resigned in November, using the word "pig-headed" to describe Augusta National's membership policies. Burning Tree, too, has suffered some casualties of what some would term political correctness.
Bill Clinton did not play at Burning Tree, nor did any of his high-ranking cabinet members. He preferred instead to tee it up at the Robert Trent Jones Golf Club in Gainesville, Va. The former president, through his New York office, did not respond to requests for comment.
The current president, George W., not as obsessed with golf as his father was, has not played at Burning Tree, either. But that is not to say that the club hasn't played a role in the current political landscape.
Last year when Sen. Trent Lott (R-Mississippi) praised the unsuccessful 1948 presidential campaign of Strom Thurmond -- his chief issue was maintaining racial segregation -- his days as the Senate's Republican leader were numbered. One of his colleagues that coveted his job was Don Nickles (R-Okla.). But after reports of his membership at Burning Tree surfaced in the Washington Post and on CNBC, he was not a serious player in the race that eventually went to Bill Frist (R-Tenn.).
Did Nickles' membership at "The Tree" cost him the job of majority leader?
"Absolutely not," said Brook Simmons, Nickles' communications director.
It is worth noting that Frist resigned his membership at the all-white Belle Meade Country Club in Nashville before successfully campaigning for the Senate seat in 1994.
Similarly, in 1990 when Georgia Sen. Sam Nunn was considering a run for president, he ended his affiliation with Burning Tree. In February 1991, he elected to forego the campaign. "I guess the only thing I could do short of a Sherman-like statement is rejoin Burning Tree," he said.
It is not clear whether or not Nunn ever returned to Burning Tree. Nunn, now chief executive officer for the Washington-based Nuclear Threat Initiative, declined to be interviewed for this story. He also works for a law firm in Atlanta and has, interestingly, maintained his membership at Augusta National.
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, who plays at Chevy Chase, reportedly refuses to play Burning Tree because of its discriminatory practices.
Pat Buchanon, the arch-conservative, caddied at Burning Tree as a boy.
"It's just a men's club where men want to get away," he said during a MSNBC appearance back in October. "The Ladies Professional Golf Association, they say you cannot be a member of it, you can't play in it unless you are a woman. I don't have any problem with that.
"I went to an all-male high school. What is wrong with that? If you want to go to a club with men and women in it, and they invite you, fine. If men want to set up a club, fine. If women want to set up a club, fine."
Greg Garber is a senior writer for ESPN.com
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Final-round scores | Weir's scorecards
AUGUSTA, Ga. -- Lefty finally won a major.
Just not the guy anyone expected.
Mike Weir didn't rely on power and flair. This mini Maple Leaf
is about tenacity and resiliency, two traits he leaned on Sunday to
win The Masters after the first sudden-death playoff in 13 years.
Weir became the first Canadian to wear a green jacket, and the
first left-hander in 40 years to win a major, by making clutch
putts down the stretch and watching Len Mattiace self-destruct on
the first extra hole.
Not bad, eh?
Six times over the final seven holes, Weir stood over crucial
putts and made them all. Playing in the final group, he didn't have
worse than a par in his round of 4-under 68. His only bogey came in
the playoff, and it didn't matter.
''It was an incredible day,'' Weir said. ''To go bogey-free at
Augusta National on Sunday, I can't ask for anything more.''
It required nothing less.
Mattiace brought drama back to the final nine holes with
phenomenal shots that took him to the edge of a stunning victory
with a 7-under 65.
Weir refused to buckle, making a 15-foot birdie on the 13th,
stuffing a wedge into 5 feet on the 15th and making keys pars along
the way, none bigger than the 6-footer he had on the 18th to force
the playoff.
''It was probably the biggest shot of my life,'' he said.
Mattiace could have used a mulligan. He pulled his approach into
the trees on No. 10 in the playoff, chipped 30 feet, nearly ran his
par putt off the green and choked back tears when he realized what
he had lost.
''I know one's going to win and one's going to lose, and I'm OK
with that,'' Mattiace said, referring to the first playoff since
Nick Faldo beat Raymond Floyd in 1990.
Tiger Woods made it to the green jacket ceremony for the third
straight year, only this time he slipped the coveted prize around
Weir's shoulders.
Only four strokes behind to start the final round, a chance to
make history with his third straight Masters victory, Woods took
double bogey on the third hole and was never a factor.
''No one has ever done it, so obviously it's been proven it's
not easy to do,'' Woods said.
As he was finishing up, the show was just getting started.
Mattiace, who had to make a 6-footer on the 18th for bogey, was
signing his card when he looked up and saw that Weir had pulled
even on the 15th.
He was on the putting green, where chairs already were being set
up for the closing ceremony. That was as close at Mattiace got to
the green jacket.
The final round ultimately belonged to Weir, who fielded a call
from Jean Cretien, Canada's prime minister, who was in the
Dominican Republic watching on television.
''He said they were jumping up and down,'' Weir said. ''They
were very excited.''
Bob Charles was the only left-hander to win a major, the 1963
British Open. He played a practice round with Weir two years ago at
Royal Lytham & St. Annes.
''It's nice to win one for the lefties,'' he said.
Phil Mickelson finished third, two strokes behind, after closing
with a 68. Mickelson was asked earlier this week which lefty he
thought would win the next major.
It seemed like a joke -- but not any longer.
The only other time Weir was in the final group at a major, he
was tied with Woods in the 1999 PGA Championship at Medinah. Weir
shot 80, but it wasn't a wasted effort.
''The tough putts, the ones around 8 feet that you need to win,
I missed almost every one I looked at at Medinah,'' Weir said. ''I
don't think I missed one today.''
Weir and Mattiace finished at 7-under 281, the highest winning
score at The Masters since 1989.
Weir won for the third time this year, and all six of his PGA
Tour victories have been comebacks -- none more special than this.
Until Sunday, the most nervous he has ever felt was watching
Canada win the gold medal in hockey at the Salt Lake City Olympics.
''This was definitely nerve-racking,'' Weir said. ''I tried to
gather myself on each putt. Every putt on this golf course is
tough.''
Woods, who stumbled to a 75, slipped the coveted prize over his
shoulders.
''Thanks, Tig,'' Weir told him. ''It feels good.''
Woods was only four strokes behind to start the final round, and
history seemed to be there for the taking.
He gave it all away with one bad decision -- a driver on the
shortest par 4 at Augusta National that went into an azalea bush,
caused him to hit his next shot left-handed and led to a double
bogey that derailed his chances.
The Masters was supposed to be won by the big hitters, but Weir
proved again that the shortest clubs in the bag -- his putter and
wedge -- can make up for a lot.
''Unbelievable,'' Weir said. ''It's something I've dreamt of,
something I worked very hard at. I'm having a hard time putting it
into words because words won't do it justice.''
So ended an unforgettable week at Augusta National.
Four days of rain.
The opening round washed out for the first time in 64 years.
A tepid protest Saturday against the all-male membership at
Augusta National.
And the first playoff since Nick Faldo beat Raymond Floyd in
1990.
Weir now takes his place among so many others who have won the
green jacket, including six-time winner Jack Nicklaus.
As a 13-year-old, Weir wrote a letter to the Golden Bear asking
if he should learn to play right-handed. Nicklaus told him not to
change a thing.
''I still have that letter in my office,'' Weir said.
He now has a green jacket, and a spot in the Champions locker
room upstairs at Augusta National.
The final round lived up to its billing, but thousands of fans
who streamed through the gates at 8 a.m. -- almost seven hours
before the leaders teed off -- could never have guessed what was in
store.
There was an amazing array of shots that sent cheers resounding
across Augusta National as one player after another worked his way
into contention.
Mickelson, after hitting into a creek on No. 2, holed a
90-foot birdie putt and looked to the sky, wondering if this might
finally be his year to win a major.
Mattiace pitched over the large mounds on No. 8 and into the
hole for a birdie, and rolled in a 60-foot birdie putt on No. 10
from almost the same spot as Ben Crenshaw when he won his first
green jacket in 1984.
Rich Beem, the PGA champion trying to prove that Hazeltine was
no fluke, holed out from the fairway for eagle on No. 5.
But every charge came with a collapse -- none greater than Jeff
Maggert's.
He started with a two-stroke lead over Weir, but it all ended in
shocking fashion.
From the fairway bunker on No. 3, Maggert's approach slammed
into the lip and caromed off his chest, a two-stroke penalty. He
slapped his knee in disgust, his ball still in the sand and his
hopes of a green jacket fading fast.
Maggert was lucky to escape with triple bogey, and managed to
scratch his way back into the hunt until he reached No. 12.
His tee shot went into the back bunker. His sand shot skidded
through the green and into the water. He dropped on the other side
of Rae's Creek and dumped another in the water, finally walking off
with an 8.
No one else got closer than two strokes the rest of the way, and
it became a two-man race over the final six holes.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Throughout this week, ESPN.com golf editor Jason Sobel will be live-blogging from the Masters, bringing you inside information and analysis from Augusta National Golf Club. Refresh this page often to keep track of all the entries during each round.
Masters live blogs: Round 1 | Round 2 | Round 3
2 p.m.: Welcome back to Augusta, golf fans. The word of the week so far has been schadenfreude -- finding pleasure in other's despair. But take heart, because I believe there's a good chance someone is actually going to win this tournament today, rather than having everyone else in contention lose it.
It's a little warmer here today (low 60s), with much less wind, potentially softer greens and, as is tradition around here, some hole locations that players can shoot for. Should make for a fun day.
2:03 p.m.: One quick thought on Tiger Woods before we get to some of the action already taking place on the course: I've seen a lot of these golf tournaments. And I've found that almost every time everyone figured a certain player would win, he doesn't. (That excludes, of course, runaway victories like Tiger had at the '97 Masters and '00 U.S. Open.)
Right now, everyone is expecting Woods to win. It's an obvious scenario and honestly, if I had to pick a champion right now, I'd take him, too. But I've seen this before. After three rounds at the '05 U.S. Open, everyone was declaring Retief Goosen the winner. He lost. After three rounds at last year's U.S. Open, Phil Mickelson was the unanimous choice. He lost.
Now, I know what you're thinking. Phil Mickelson and Retief Goosen aren't Tiger Woods. And you're right. But let's not give Tiger the green jacket just yet, either.
2:07 p.m.: So what makes me think there are numbers to be had out there today? Well, this, for one: Sandy Lyle shot a 1-under 71. That's right, Sandy Lyle. The guy who won here 19 years ago and currently owns no status on any major world golf tour. He's also the same guy who five-putted -- five-putted! the 16th green yesterday. If he shoots 71, there's a 67 to be had out there. Whomever shoots it may win this tournament.
2:09 p.m.: Entering today's round, there were a half-dozen heavy hitters tied at 6-over, four shots back of the lead, but very much in contention. Included in that mix -- and the man most folks thought could still make a run at this thing -- was defending champion Phil Mickelson, but he's already gotten himself into some major trouble. According to one of my spies out on the course:

That should just about do it for his chances.
But the guy I really like at 6-over entering the day is Jim Furyk. He hasn't made a peep this week, just plodding his way around the course. Has their ever been a quieter second-ranked player in the world? He's already even-par for the day through three holes, but I wouldn't be surprised to see him make a nice run today.
2:15 p.m.: First tee shot of the day ... and Stuart Appleby blows one into the gallery. Yikes. Not a good start.
And he's wearing the same pro shop-bought sweater as yesterday. Nice to see I'm not the only one recycling clothes this week.
2:17 p.m.: Speaking of sweaters, Tiger Woods claimed yesterday that he didn't pack a red sweater in his suitcase -- and he was serious. Tiger comes out in black sweater, black pants (with, of course, a red golf shirt underneath), proving that he can't get everything he wants. You mean Nike couldn't couldn't get a red sweater on a Gulfstream to Augusta this morning?
2:20 p.m.: Words of wisdom from the ink-stained wretch sitting next to me:
He may be right. Appleby's got to get up and down to save par -- a daunting task -- while Justin Rose just made a double to start his day.
2:31 p.m.: Right now, four players are at 2-under for their rounds today: Fred Couples (through 17), Mark Calcavecchia (through nine), Rory Sabbatini (through four) and Retief Goosen (through three).
2:33 p.m.: Here we go, folks: Exactly 18 minutes after the final group teed off, we have a six-way tie for first place. After Tiger Woods' bogey and Stuart Appleby's double, the leaderboard looks like this:
• T-1. Appleby +4
• T-1. Johnson +4
• T-1. Sabbatini +4
• T-1. Goosen +4
• T-1. Taylor +4
• T-1. Woods +4
2:37 p.m.: We've had a Zach Attack at the third hole. The Joaquin Phoenix look-alike makes his second birdie in a row to take sole possession of first place. If he wins and they make a movie about it, I know just the guy to play the lead role ...
2:40 p.m.: First e-mail of the day comes from Matt in Chicago:
When golf fans are strangely morphing the names of contenders Zach Johnson and Vaughn Taylor, you know something weird is going on at Augusta.
But I understand your point. Crazy start to the round. But we never remember the beginnings of final rounds, do we? We only remember the results, and there's a long way to go in this one.2:42 p.m.: Great pairing for Johnson and Taylor today. They're friends, about the same age, played on the U.S. Ryder Cup team together and have the same agent, so they should be pretty comfortable.I was asked yesterday if a guy would rather be paired with a friend in a pressure-packed round like this. We need only ask Phil Mickelson, who received Freddie Couples-given back slaps throughout the final round a year ago. So, yeah, playing with a friend certainly helps.2:47 p.m.: I haven't said much about the TV coverage this week for one simple reason: I'm covering a golf tournament, not a golf telecast. But I couldn't let this go by without comment. Jim Nantz just made a "Dredge Report" reference. You're welcome, Jim. You're very welcome.2:49 p.m.: Bogey-birdie start for Woods moves him back into a share of the lead. Wonder if he's nervous at all. Seriously. I know everyone out there is going to say, "Oh, Tiger has been-there, done-that. Nothing affects him. The guy's a machine ... yada, yada, yada." But really, he's got more pressure on him than anyone else. He's trying to win a fifth career green jacket and knows everyone expects him to win today. That's a lot for anyone to deal with -- even Tiger Woods.2:53 p.m.: Haven't mentioned the Singh-Singh pairing yet today, with Vijay and Jeev Milkha playing together. (And just to make it funner, as Rich Beem might say, "Jeev" backwards is "Veej.") Though Jeev has blown up with a front-nine 41, Veej is right back in the mix. He's 2-under at the turn and just two back of the leaders. I'll bet he's still kicking himself for that 79 he shot yesterday.3:02 p.m.: I've mentioned a few times this week that predicting a major championship through two rounds is like deciding the winner at halftime of an NBA game. Well, it's true. And right now, it's like there's about seven minutes left in that NBA game. Getting down to crunch time. And for the first time all week, Tiger Woods is your solo leader. Remember this moment. Could be a big one.3:07 p.m.: Just a thought, but if you were in contention going into the final round of the Masters, wouldn't you wear something that would go nicely with a green jacket? Tiger's got his usually red shirt covered up by a black sweater; if he wins, the black will offset from his usual post-round green and red Christmas theme. Stuart Appleby's got a black sweater over a blue shirt. Vaughn Taylor is in all black, a la Gary Player. Retief Goosen and Vijay Singh each have white sweater vests over (I think) blue shirts. And not positive about Zach Johnson, but I think it's a darker color.Not sure any of those go too well, though I guess you can't go wrong with standard black. What goes with a green jacket anyway?3:12 p.m.: E-mailer Brian picks up on a major theme we've had throughout the week:Have any of the players come up to you asking you to praise the chances of other guys? You seriously have the jinx thing going. Last night it was Vaughn Taylor, today  it's Jim Furyk. As soon as you praise a guy's chances, his score goes up by 2-3 shots. You could make some real money here.Sure 'nuff, Furyk is now at 7-over after I said I liked his chances.I wonder if now would be a good time to remind everyone that I picked Tiger Woods to win in my pre-tournament rankings.3:14 p.m.: Luke Donald is getting married soon and he'll be given a nice wedding present by the Augusta National folks at the end of the day: Four crystal goblets with the Masters logo on them. That would be two each for his two eagles this week, including the one he just made on the par-5 eighth hole to move to within one stroke of the lead.3:18 p.m.: E-mailer Rick chimes in as the clubhouse leader for the Groveling E-mailer of the Week award:How many e-mails are you getting each day? Actually I don't care. I just want to be in your blog.If you don't care, I won't tell you. And no, you can't be in my blog, either.

2:42 p.m.: Great pairing for Johnson and Taylor today. They're friends, about the same age, played on the U.S. Ryder Cup team together and have the same agent, so they should be pretty comfortable.
I was asked yesterday if a guy would rather be paired with a friend in a pressure-packed round like this. We need only ask Phil Mickelson, who received Freddie Couples-given back slaps throughout the final round a year ago. So, yeah, playing with a friend certainly helps.
2:47 p.m.: I haven't said much about the TV coverage this week for one simple reason: I'm covering a golf tournament, not a golf telecast. But I couldn't let this go by without comment. Jim Nantz just made a "Dredge Report" reference. You're welcome, Jim. You're very welcome.
2:49 p.m.: Bogey-birdie start for Woods moves him back into a share of the lead. Wonder if he's nervous at all. Seriously. I know everyone out there is going to say, "Oh, Tiger has been-there, done-that. Nothing affects him. The guy's a machine ... yada, yada, yada." But really, he's got more pressure on him than anyone else. He's trying to win a fifth career green jacket and knows everyone expects him to win today. That's a lot for anyone to deal with -- even Tiger Woods.
2:53 p.m.: Haven't mentioned the Singh-Singh pairing yet today, with Vijay and Jeev Milkha playing together. (And just to make it funner, as Rich Beem might say, "Jeev" backwards is "Veej.") Though Jeev has blown up with a front-nine 41, Veej is right back in the mix. He's 2-under at the turn and just two back of the leaders. I'll bet he's still kicking himself for that 79 he shot yesterday.
3:02 p.m.: I've mentioned a few times this week that predicting a major championship through two rounds is like deciding the winner at halftime of an NBA game. Well, it's true. And right now, it's like there's about seven minutes left in that NBA game. Getting down to crunch time. And for the first time all week, Tiger Woods is your solo leader. Remember this moment. Could be a big one.3:07 p.m.: Just a thought, but if you were in contention going into the final round of the Masters, wouldn't you wear something that would go nicely with a green jacket? Tiger's got his usually red shirt covered up by a black sweater; if he wins, the black will offset from his usual post-round green and red Christmas theme. Stuart Appleby's got a black sweater over a blue shirt. Vaughn Taylor is in all black, a la Gary Player. Retief Goosen and Vijay Singh each have white sweater vests over (I think) blue shirts. And not positive about Zach Johnson, but I think it's a darker color.Not sure any of those go too well, though I guess you can't go wrong with standard black. What goes with a green jacket anyway?3:12 p.m.: E-mailer Brian picks up on a major theme we've had throughout the week:Have any of the players come up to you asking you to praise the chances of other guys? You seriously have the jinx thing going. Last night it was Vaughn Taylor, today  it's Jim Furyk. As soon as you praise a guy's chances, his score goes up by 2-3 shots. You could make some real money here.Sure 'nuff, Furyk is now at 7-over after I said I liked his chances.I wonder if now would be a good time to remind everyone that I picked Tiger Woods to win in my pre-tournament rankings.3:14 p.m.: Luke Donald is getting married soon and he'll be given a nice wedding present by the Augusta National folks at the end of the day: Four crystal goblets with the Masters logo on them. That would be two each for his two eagles this week, including the one he just made on the par-5 eighth hole to move to within one stroke of the lead.3:18 p.m.: E-mailer Rick chimes in as the clubhouse leader for the Groveling E-mailer of the Week award:How many e-mails are you getting each day? Actually I don't care. I just want to be in your blog.If you don't care, I won't tell you. And no, you can't be in my blog, either.

3:07 p.m.: Just a thought, but if you were in contention going into the final round of the Masters, wouldn't you wear something that would go nicely with a green jacket? Tiger's got his usually red shirt covered up by a black sweater; if he wins, the black will offset from his usual post-round green and red Christmas theme. Stuart Appleby's got a black sweater over a blue shirt. Vaughn Taylor is in all black, a la Gary Player. Retief Goosen and Vijay Singh each have white sweater vests over (I think) blue shirts. And not positive about Zach Johnson, but I think it's a darker color.
Not sure any of those go too well, though I guess you can't go wrong with standard black. What goes with a green jacket anyway?
3:12 p.m.: E-mailer Brian picks up on a major theme we've had throughout the week:
Sure 'nuff, Furyk is now at 7-over after I said I liked his chances.
I wonder if now would be a good time to remind everyone that I picked Tiger Woods to win in my pre-tournament rankings.
3:14 p.m.: Luke Donald is getting married soon and he'll be given a nice wedding present by the Augusta National folks at the end of the day: Four crystal goblets with the Masters logo on them. That would be two each for his two eagles this week, including the one he just made on the par-5 eighth hole to move to within one stroke of the lead.
3:18 p.m.: E-mailer Rick chimes in as the clubhouse leader for the Groveling E-mailer of the Week award:
If you don't care, I won't tell you. And no, you can't be in my blog, either.
3:20 p.m.: Mauricio e-mails with his answer to the question about what goes well with a green jacket:

If that means some guy is walking around this place in Sergio Garcia's British Open Tweety Bird outfit, no thanks. I'll pass.
3:23 p.m.: I was just approached by a fellow writer who told me:
Uh-huh. He thinks. He also said he likes Retief Goosen's chances right now. Thanks, Captain Obvious.
3:25 p.m.: First three rounds: 8 eagles. Today: 7. The latest of which comes from Rory Sabbatini at the par-5 eighth hole -- a brilliant, winding putt that found the bottom of the cup and prompted a big reaction from the crowd and an even bigger one from Sabbatini.
If you don't know much about Sabbatini, he's about as non-traditional an Augusta National guy as anyone -- a loose cannon who speaks his mind (a little too much, some would say) and displays plenty of emotion. He's won three PGA Tour events, including last year's Nissan Open, but is more well known for a few incidents than anything else.
A couple of years ago, playing with turtle-slow Ben Crane in the final round of the Booz Allen Classic after three days of playing behind him, Sabbatini walked ahead and played on his own, drawing plenty of criticism. He was also paired with somewhat slow Nick Faldo at one point, prompting his wife, Amy, to wear a shirt in the gallery that read, "Keep Up." Countered Faldo at the time: "It is very embarrassing for them to bring their sexual problems to the golf course. Poor fellow, he has enough problems as it is without her announcing to the world."
Amy also wore a shirt that read "Stoopid Amerikan" at the World Cup in Spain in a few back, in response to Paul Casey somewhat anti-American comments.
3:36 p.m.: Seems like a good time to point out Rory Sabbatini's major record: 21 career starts, 9 made cuts, best finish of T-26 (at last year's British Open).
Yes, you read that right. The guy leading the Masters has never had a top-25 result at a major ... and now he's not leading the Masters anymore, either. Sabbatini bogeys No. 9 to fall one behind Retief Goosen.
3:44 p.m.: For all those folks who were ready to hand Tiger Woods his fifth green jacket just one hour ago: Now what? Seriously. Do you really think it's Tiger's to lose, at two off the lead with four players ahead of him? If I was handicapping the field as of this very instant, I don't think Tiger Woods is the favorite. I'd go with Goosen.
3:47 p.m.: Two thoughts about today's final round that absolutely neglects everything we've seen, read and heard about for the first three days:
First, everyone bemoaning the fact that Augusta National wouldn't see any great shots on a Masters Sunday, based on the high scores of the previous three days, are eating crow right now. So far, today's round feels very much like that of 2004, when guys were making birdies and eagles all over the place. Is it playing tougher? Sure, but guys can make shots, too.
Secondly, whatever happened to that "no-name" leaderboard? Among the guys in the top-10 right now are world top-20 players Retief Goosen, Stuart Appleby, David Toms, Tiger Woods, Paul Casey, Luke Donald, Padraig Harrington, Vijay Singh. Wow. That's a monster lineup. Fantastic leaderboard.
3:51 p.m.: For years, the cut rule at the Masters has been that the top-44 and ties reach the weekend, plus anyone within 10 shots of the lead. Now, the second part of that rule is often forgotten, as it usually just allows a few disappointing players and past champs to weasel their way into two more rounds at Augusta.
But if tournament officials ever needed a reason for why this part of the rule is included, they need only point to Retief Goosen as Exhibit A. At 8-over through the first two rounds, Goosen made the cut on the number and actually would have been on a Friday night flight home had either Brett Wetterich or Tim Clark made one more birdie (or one less bogey) over the first 36 holes. Instead, Goosen made a charge on Saturday with a 2-under 70 and remains in the lead following an unbelievable bogey-free front-nine 32 today. If he can shoot, say, 65 or 66, and win this tournament, it should go down in history as one of the best Masters final rounds ever.
3:58 p.m.: Just checked out the SportsNation poll on the front page of this Web site. The question is: "Will Tiger Woods win the Masters?"
An utterly ridiculous 134,316 of you have voted -- and I realize that some voted last night and some have just voted since the final round began. But here are the results:
• Yes: 79 percent.
• No: 21 percent.
Could over 100,000 people all be wrong?
4:05 p.m.: This e-mail question comes from my Mom, who's actually been reading this thing all week. She types in all caps and, well, just deal with it:

Thanks, Mom. Lemme go count up all the leaders of all 71 Masters tournaments ever. Should only take a minute or two.
OK, OK, I'll cut the sarcasm. Honestly, there have been a lot of different guys at the top this week; I'm guessing more than usual. But remember, if you're going to look at the entire leaderboard for the entire week, you have to count up every single guy, which this week started when Ian Poulter made par to beat Billy Mayfair's bogey on the first hole in the 8 a.m. pairing Thursday morning. So, basically, it's a lot of guys, though I'm not sure there's any kind of stat to count that up throughout the years. Tell Dad I said hi.
4:12 p.m.: Looking ahead, the first player who's going to post a score and become the clubhouse leader with an actual chance to win will be Paul Casey, who just made a long birdie putt on 16 to move to 5-over. If he can finish birdie-par over the last two holes, he's actually got a decent chance to grab a sandwich, take a nap, hit some balls on the range and come back out in a few hours for a playoff.
4:18 p.m.: The following e-mail comes from Skyler:
Man, fickle, fickle fans. When Woods got to within one of the lead last night and when he got sole possession earlier today, I got the sense that everyone thought it was over. Now he's 2 back and we're supposed to write him off?
Look, I'm the guy who said at the beginning of the day that this thing is wide open -- and I still believe it. Is Tiger struggling? Yes. Is he the favorite right now? No. But the minute you starts betting on Tiger Woods to lose, you're getting into very dangerous territory.
4:23 p.m.: Will from London checks in with this e-mail:

He's definitely got an emotional personality and isn't afraid to show it. Does he fit the understated, demure nature of past Masters champions? Not at all. You can be sure that Champions locker room would be a lot livelier with him in the mix.
4:27 p.m.: Word of warning to Retief Goosen fans: No one is getting around this course without a bogey today. Goosen hasn't made one in 11 holes so far. It's coming. Don't know when, don't know where, don't know how. But we'll see a bad swing or a bad putt at some point.
4:30 p.m.: As the final pairing of Tiger Woods and Stuart Appleby tee off the 10th hole, e-mailer Mauricio has a reminder for us:
So true. We've heard it so many times before and it's certainly the case this time around, too.
4:34 p.m.: So much for Paul Casey posting a number. He just made bogey on 17 and is now at 6-over. Even if he birdies 18, I don't see all those players ahead of him coming back to the pack that much. Next guy in line to post a number and get into the clubhouse will be -- incredibly enough, because we haven't heard his name at all -- Jerry Kelly. He's 5-over with four to play right now.
4:36 p.m.: So is it a jinx if I said Goosen would make a bogey and he did? Or would it be the other way around? Would I have to say he'd make a birdie and then he'd be jinxed and make bogey?
I don't know. I'm confused. But he just made bogey on 12. Predictable.
4:42 p.m.: Very, very important par putt on 10 for Tiger ... and he misses it right. That's a biggie. Can't write him off yet -- especially with inexperienced Rory Sabbatini in the lead -- but that one's gotta sting.
4:43 p.m.: I talked about Jerry Kelly being the next guy who could post a number then sit back and watch. Well, he's at 5-over, with an eagle putt coming up on 15. Like I said about Casey earlier, if Kelly can get it to 4-over, he's got a good chance; if he gets it to 3-over, he's got a great chance.
4:45 p.m.: I know I said I wouldn't discuss the TV coverage, but I really liked this quote from one of the announcers (maybe Kostis?):
The player who can best do this over the final stretch of holes will be your winner.4:48 p.m.: As has been the case throughout the week, make me laugh out loud and your e-mail gets into the blog. Good work, Bob:I don't know if this is an omen, but when Tiger missed that putt on 10, my dog threw up.4:52 p.m.: What a ridiculous shot by Tiger. Stuck behind a tree prior to his second shot on 11, Woods took a mighty whack and actually cracked the shaft in half against the tree.The good news: He probably knows a Nike rep or two who can hook him up.The better news: He somewhere avoided breaking his wrist on the shot.4:54 p.m.: Quick leaderboard check: Stuart Appleby, Retief Goosen, Rory Sabbatini and Zach Johnson all tied for first at 3-over; Jerry Kelly and Justin Rose are each one back; Tiger Woods is two back.I had to type that really, really fast. The way things are changing around here, by the time I got to the end of the sentence, someone else would move up or down.4:58 p.m.: Just throwing this out there: The final pairing is going to finish at 6:45 p.m. If there is a playoff, it would start by, oh, 7 p.m. If there are four or five guys all tied atop the leaderboard ... and sunset comes around 7:45 or so ... well, I'm just hoping "Masters live blog Day 5" doesn't happen. But it is a possibility.5:03 p.m.: Appleby rinses one into Rae's Creek on 12. Ouch. Here comes Tiger ...5:04 p.m.: Unlike yesterday, Tiger is safely on. Big sigh of relief.5:05 p.m.: Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. Zach Johnson, who isn't a big bomber off the tee by any means, decides to hit an iron on the par-5 13th and is rewarded by making birdie. Someone's got this place figured out a little. And somewhere Tom Fazio and Hootie Johnson are smiling.Johnson is now your solo leader at 2-over. Zach Johnson, Masters champion? Really?5:13 p.m.: Justin Rose will not go away. He was at 7-over and dead in the water just six holes ago; now he's 4-over with five to play. Very much still in it.5:16 p.m.: Great shot by Zach Johnson into the 14th green. Back right hole location, but he knocked to within 10 feet. I'm not sure how many guys out here are leaderboard-watching, but if he makes this putt, they should be very worried ... and there it goes! Birdie for Johnson. He's up two. Go crazy, Iowa. Go crazy.5:19 p.m.: Spy report concerning Tiger's shot from up against a tree on 11, in which he broke his iron against a tree:"Before Tiger's swing, he warned the gallery to watch out because he knew the club was going to break."

4:48 p.m.: As has been the case throughout the week, make me laugh out loud and your e-mail gets into the blog. Good work, Bob:
4:52 p.m.: What a ridiculous shot by Tiger. Stuck behind a tree prior to his second shot on 11, Woods took a mighty whack and actually cracked the shaft in half against the tree.
The good news: He probably knows a Nike rep or two who can hook him up.
The better news: He somewhere avoided breaking his wrist on the shot.
4:54 p.m.: Quick leaderboard check: Stuart Appleby, Retief Goosen, Rory Sabbatini and Zach Johnson all tied for first at 3-over; Jerry Kelly and Justin Rose are each one back; Tiger Woods is two back.
I had to type that really, really fast. The way things are changing around here, by the time I got to the end of the sentence, someone else would move up or down.
4:58 p.m.: Just throwing this out there: The final pairing is going to finish at 6:45 p.m. If there is a playoff, it would start by, oh, 7 p.m. If there are four or five guys all tied atop the leaderboard ... and sunset comes around 7:45 or so ... well, I'm just hoping "Masters live blog Day 5" doesn't happen. But it is a possibility.
5:03 p.m.: Appleby rinses one into Rae's Creek on 12. Ouch. Here comes Tiger ...
5:04 p.m.: Unlike yesterday, Tiger is safely on. Big sigh of relief.
5:05 p.m.: Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. Zach Johnson, who isn't a big bomber off the tee by any means, decides to hit an iron on the par-5 13th and is rewarded by making birdie. Someone's got this place figured out a little. And somewhere Tom Fazio and Hootie Johnson are smiling.
Johnson is now your solo leader at 2-over. Zach Johnson, Masters champion? Really?
5:13 p.m.: Justin Rose will not go away. He was at 7-over and dead in the water just six holes ago; now he's 4-over with five to play. Very much still in it.
5:16 p.m.: Great shot by Zach Johnson into the 14th green. Back right hole location, but he knocked to within 10 feet. I'm not sure how many guys out here are leaderboard-watching, but if he makes this putt, they should be very worried ... and there it goes! Birdie for Johnson. He's up two. Go crazy, Iowa. Go crazy.
5:19 p.m.: Spy report concerning Tiger's shot from up against a tree on 11, in which he broke his iron against a tree:

5:22 p.m.: Greatest. Shot. Ever.
OK, so I exaggerate. It won't be replayed as much as the chip in at 16 from a few years ago, but Tiger Woods' second shot into the par-5 13th was utterly remarkable. He landed it well left of the pin, yelled "Bite! God, bite!" and well, it bit, rolling all the way down to the slope to within a few feet of the hole. If he knocks in the eagle here, he'll move to 3-over.
Meanwhile, Zach Johnson will hear the noise. And wonder what else he needs to do to win this thing.
5:27 p.m.: Another genius move by Zach Johnson? He just layed up at the par-5 15th. We will see ...
5:28 p.m.: Congratulations, Tiger. You've just won a nice pair of crystal goblets. They're really very beautiful. Elin will find a place for them, I'm sure.
Oh, and you're now in second place with that eagle, too. Two behind Zach Johnson. But whatever happens, you've got the goblets. So that's nice.
5:30 p.m.: I wrote this column after the first round, in which I detailed the four rookies from last year's U.S. Ryder Cup team all being in contention after Thursday. They must have gained some confidence and experience from that event.
But I also relayed the story about Tiger Woods taking each of the four out to dinner prior to the Ryder Cup in an effort to get to know them and make them feel like part of the team.
It was a veteran move by a veteran player, but I just wonder if Tiger lost some intimidation over these guys in the process. Now, perhaps, they see him as just another dude, same age as them, really, who likes a nice steak and happens to play golf.
Well, one of those four rookies was Zach Johnson. I wonder if he was intimidated by Woods before that Ryder Cup experience. And I wonder if he's intimidated by him now.
5:35 p.m.: Jerry Kelly is your clubhouse leader at 4-over. Zach Johnson would have to lose three strokes over the final three holes to fall that far. but that couldn't happ-- ... oops, just two days ago, Johnson played the final three holes in bogey-bogey-bogey. Very interesting.
5:38 p.m.: Well, Johnson's isn't making bogey on 16 unless he suddenly gets the yips. (Let's see if that jinxes him; I hope not.) Zach has about 12 feet for birdie. If he makes it -- very real possibility -- it doesn't matter how well Tige rwoods is playing ... he could be running out of holes.
5:43 p.m.: And there it is! Zach Johnson makes birdie and folks, this one could be over. Could be. If he can par out, Tiger will need to make three birdies in the final four holes. That's a tough, tough proposition.
Then again, I'm not so sure Johnson can play these next two in even par. This is a guy who won the BellSouth Classic in 2004 ... and nothing else since joining the PGA Tour. He has never felt this kind of pressure before.
5:46 p.m.: Jerry Kelly can pack up the clubs and hop a flight to Wisconsin. His presence is no longer necessary at Augusta National, as Rory Sabbatini birdies the last to take over the clubhouse lead at 3-over. Everything's coming fast and furious now.
5:47 p.m.: Spy report from the course:
I can only imagine. People are probably dancing in the streets of Iowa City right now, too.
5:53 p.m.: Tiger Woods is in the water hazard on 15. That's trouble, obviously. Big trouble. He can still scramble to make par, but a bogey could put this thing out of reach for him.
Woods was just starting to get it going. He must be as shocked as are about that one.
5:55 p.m.: So what is Zach Johnson doing so well today? Let's look at his stats so far:
• 8 of 12 fairways.
• 12 of 16 greens in regulation.
• 24 total putts.
That last one is the biggest. Johnson took 32 putts yesterday, so he's improved mightily.
5:58 p.m.: Jinx? What jinx? Oh, that one ... Johnson three-putts on 17 to drop a stroke. He's at 1-over. He looks pretty composed, but I can guarantee you that Johnson is shaking like a leaf right now.
6:04 p.m.: Someone was going to make a late run at this thing and I think we assumed it would be Tiger. But how about ... Justin Rose!? The young Brit makes birdie on 16 and he's within one stroke of the lead!
6:06 p.m.: Tiger knocks one stiff at 16. Good birdie chance. But no miraculous chip-in this time around.
6:09 p.m.: Zach chips to within inches on 18. Easy tap-in par. And we have a clubhouse leader at 1-over. Is it over? Quite possible. Zach Johnson just may be your Masters champion.
Justin Rose will need a birdie on one of his last two holes; Tiger will need two in three holes. Can it be done? Yes. Will it? Highly doubtful.
6:12 p.m.: Tiger Woods misses his birdie on 16. Gotta finish birdie-birdie.
6:23 p.m.: This one is just about in the books, folks! Justin Rose doubles No. 17. Now it's up to Tiger to finish birdie-birdie to force a playoff. Can it happen?
6:25 p.m.: As reader Larry from London reminds us:
6:31 p.m.: Yes. I know. Technically? It's not over. Tiger Woods could make the greatest shot in golf history by making eagle at the 72nd hole of the Masters. But, really? It's over.
The only thing left to decide is what size jacket Zach Johnson needs.
6:37 p.m.: Not one single player on the leaderboard will rest easy tonight. Every single guy knows there were one or two shots somewhere this week that they'll be saying woulda, coulda, shoulda about for a long time.
6:39 p.m.: Tiger for the eagle ... it doesn't go in! And your winner is Zach Johnson! Raise your hand if you picked the 31-year-old from Iowa before the week started. (Put your hand down. You're lying.)
Some will say this Masters lacked spark, lacked a great champion. But Johnson was the best player over 72 holes this week. He deserves this victory.
6:42 p.m.: Somewhere, Roberto DiVicenzo is screaming at a television: "Count up the score! Double check! Triple check!"
6:45 p.m.: OK, golf fans. That'll do it from Augusta. Been an awesome week. Four days of the first-ever Masters live blog. Exactly 27,907 words. We saw a tougher Augusta National course than usual, a stacked leaderboard and a player who stood up to Tiger Woods, as Zach Johnson earns his first career major chmpaionship victory. Thanks for all the e-mails throughout the week and keep an eye on ESPN.com's golf coverage tonight for more on the Masters final round!
Jason Sobel is ESPN.com's golf editor. He can be reached at Jason.Sobel@espn3.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AUGUSTA, Ga. -- The question can be innocuous or contemptuous. It can reek of cynicism or confusion. It can be complicated and perplexing. It can be frank and unvarnished. It can be interpreted existentially, philosophically, factually.
"Who are you?"
Zach Johnson was faced with this query Sunday night, the green jacket framing his shoulders after he was declared the newest champion of the Masters Tournament. He sat up in his chair, looked straight ahead and pondered those three little words.
How would you answer? What would you say? How much would you reveal? It can be maintained that a person's response to this query says everything about him. With hundreds of eyes looking his way, eager with anticipation, Johnson considered what it would say about him.
Perhaps he would discuss his upbringing. "I'm just a Midwest boy from Iowa," he had earlier told the packed-house crowd gathered for his green jacket ceremony. Indeed, he is. Born in Iowa City, raised in Cedar Rapids -- a Hawkeye through and through.
Johnson was an active kid from an early age. "I played every sport you can imagine," he said, "and I probably liked some other sports maybe even better at times."
He began playing golf at age 10. Got pretty decent. Attended Drake University on a golf scholarship, but figured he'd need to fall back on that business management/marketing degree before too long. Play professionally? Try to join the PGA Tour someday? Sure, it seemed like a nice idea, but was he good enough?
"I didn't know if I was, personally," said Johnson, 31. "I was backed by a lot of people. I was persuaded to give it a shot. You know, I really didn't want to go back to school. I really didn't want to get a job. The one thing that I kind of clinged to was the fact that every year, as a junior in high school, and then in college, I improved, and I felt like, you know, if I can get the necessary finances down, I'm going to give this a shot for two or three years and see where things go. And if I keep improving, then we'll see how far it takes me."
Maybe Johnson would look to this part of his life for the response to the question. The roots. The early years. How his professional golf career was conceived.
He joined something called the Prairie Tour, the equivalent of Class A minor league baseball, barnstorming his way through the Plains states -- about as far from a green jacket as a professional golfer can be.
"My first event was in Lincoln, Neb.," Johnson recalled. "I played in Bellevue, Neb. I played in Lawrence, Kan. Where else have I played? All over the Midwest, down into Missouri."
He remembers the first winner's check. Heck, his folks still have the oversized souvenir version at home. It was worth about $2,500 -- or was it $3,000? -- and no, he didn't try to cash the thing. "I'm not Happy Gilmore."
He could talk about the journey. About working his way from one rung of the mini-tours to the next. After the Prairie Tour came the Hooters Tour, where -- believe it or not -- actual Hooters girls would present you with a trophy if you won a tournament.
"I thought those were the best days of my life right there," he said. "Chicken wings and everything. But that's how I got better. Those mini-tours, a lot of good players have come through the ranks there. I feel very fortunate to have played in those tours."
He continued climbing those rungs. Won twice on the Nationwide Tour in 2003, earned a promotion to the PGA Tour, then -- wouldn't you know it? -- went out and won the BellSouth Classic in April of that year. The kid from Iowa who not that long ago had questioned his own talents was now a huge success on the world's biggest stage.
Johnson didn't win again, but he progressed as a player. He was named to the U.S. Ryder Cup team, developed into one of the better young players around. Meanwhile, his family life prospered, as well. He's a husband to Kim and, just 14 weeks ago, became a father for the first time when David William Johnson was born Jan. 4.
Will, as his parents call him, was there to greet Dad by the 18th green Sunday, peacefully oblivious to the surrounding excitement.
"He's an amazing addition to the family," Zach said. "He wouldn't have cared if I shot 85 today."
But Zach didn't shoot 85. He shot 69, 3-under-par and tied for the best round of the day. It was enough to win the Masters by 2 strokes, claim his first green jacket, get asked the question, "Who are you?"
There are so many answers Johnson could have given. Son. Father. Golfer. Masters champion.
He sat up in his chair, looked straight ahead and pondered those three little words.
"I'm Zach Johnson, and I'm from Cedar Rapids, Iowa," he said. "I'm a normal guy."
Jason Sobel is ESPN.com's golf editor. He can be reached at Jason.Sobel@espn3.com
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
All these years later, it is necessary to remind yourself that in 1958 Arnold Palmer was not yet Arnold Palmer. Not the Arnie we have come to know as one of golf's greatest champions and ambassadors. Not the Arnie who carried a sport on its back, helped usher in the television age, inspired the masses.
Nope, back then, the son of a greenskeeper from Latrobe, Pa., was a well-regarded pro who had yet to win his first major championship. His "army" was in its formative years, and his megawatt personality had yet to capture the fancy of marketing gurus and advertising reps.
In truth, Palmer, then 28, was working for a living, trying to support his young family, playing for pay and counting his pennies.
This is why all these years and millions of dollars in endorsements later, Palmer remembers what that first Masters victory paid.
"I know exactly," Palmer, 78, said in a recent interview.
"It was $14,000, and I know that because in all the excitement and things that were happening, I gave my wife [Winnie] my checkbook. I said, 'Write Ironman [his caddie] a check for $1,400.' Well, she was pretty excited also. And she wrote the check for $14,000. If it had been cashed, it would have been a tough situation. It was something I couldn't afford.
"So, yes, it was an awful lot of money. And I was pretty excited."
Official Masters records say he was paid $11,250 for that victory, but who is going to argue? Fifty years later, Palmer was emphatic.
It was just the third year of television coverage for the Masters, with only the 15th through 18th holes shown. The term "Arnie's Army" was first used by a group of military personnel who came to help at the tournament from nearby Camp (now Fort) Gordon. Tickets -- now sold only through a patrons list -- could then be bought at the gate.
And Palmer very much looked forward to getting to Augusta, where the grass was always greener, the conditions always better than anything he had seen along the way playing the tour.
"I remember a pro who I had played with in the winter, and he was considerably older than I was," Palmer said. "His name was Lloyd Mangrum. I remember in those days talking to Lloyd about the Masters, and one day I asked him, 'How important is it to you to be playing in Augusta at the Masters? You have the course record [64 at the time]. What does that mean to you?' This was about 1956 or '57. He said, 'Are you kidding me? I'd give every title I have won for one Masters.'
"That kind of told it to me. He said it and he meant it: 'This is the greatest tournament I've ever played.' And that sort of set the standard for me."
Palmer arrived at the Masters in 1958 having won the eighth title of his career at the St. Petersburg Open, although he did not have much professional major championship experience. At that time, he had yet to play in a British Open or PGA Championship. The year prior, he tied for seventh at the Masters and had been seventh at the 1956 U.S.  Open.
"I felt like I was playing well enough to win, good enough to win," Palmer said. "In my early years at Augusta, the experts, so to speak, some of the people who classed themselves as knowledgeable about what it took to win the Masters ... I remember it running in my ears constantly that I didn't hit the ball the way you have to hit it to win at Augusta.
"I always hit the ball low and on the line. Very rarely did I ever hit it up in the air like Jack [Nicklaus] does or some of the players that were successful at Augusta. And that made me determined to win Augusta even more, because I figured that if there is a way to get to where you have to get on all of the holes at Augusta, hitting a low ball still made it possible to win and it worked for me."
Palmer trailed Ken Venturi after two rounds, but a third-round 68 vaulted him into a tie for the lead with Sam Snead. Palmer and Venturi, who was three strokes back, were paired for the final round, and Venturi trailed by just one stroke by the 12th hole.
And that is where a controversial rules incident occurred, one that is still the subject of some debate today. Palmer's tee shot to the par-3 hole landed behind the green and plugged. Palmer believed he was entitled to relief -- under a local rule in effect that week -- because the ball was embedded. And Venturi agreed.
But the rules official on the scene, Arthur Lacey -- a former president of the British PGA and a member of the 1933 and '37 GB&I Ryder Cup team -- did not. He ruled Palmer had to play without relief. An argument ensued, and Palmer eventually played the ball, gouging it out of the turf, hitting a poor chip past the hole, then two-putting for a double-bogey 5. Venturi had made par and assumed the lead.
Or so he thought.
Feeling he had received a bad ruling, Palmer announced he was playing a second ball. This time, with a drop to a clean lie, he chipped up near the hole and made par. The twosome played on, waiting for a rules committee to decide Palmer's fate.
To this day, Venturi believes that Palmer played the second ball incorrectly. He should have played the two balls concurrently and declared it at the time, Venturi said in his 2004 autobiography, "Getting Up and Down" and again in a recent interview from his home in Palm Desert, Calif.
"It could never happen today," said Venturi, 76, the 1964 U.S. Open champion who went on to a long career as a CBS golf analyst. "There were only five of us there and no cameras. I told Arnold he should get a drop, and that's when Arthur Lacey said it was half embedded. Well, that's like being half pregnant. It either is embedded or it isn't.
"But that's what he ruled, and when Palmer played the second ball, I told him you can't do that. You have to declare it before you hit it. Suppose he had chipped in the embedded ball?"
In Palmer's book, "Playing by the Rules," he wrote that he told Lacey he was going to play a second ball and appeal to the rules committee. But, Palmer said, Lacey wouldn't allow that, either. (The rules do allow for playing of a second ball.) It is possible that Venturi did not hear this conversation, as he elected to play out.
Palmer and Venturi went to the 13th tee, with Palmer convinced he was right and Venturi convinced he was right. The ruling didn't come until the 15th hole, and Palmer was given a 3 instead of a 5.
"There was never a question in my mind that I wasn't right about the 12th hole," said Palmer, who hit his approach onto the green at No. 13, made an eagle and went on to win by a shot over Fred Hawkins and Doug Ford and by two over Venturi. "I was very confident that I was right and I played with that confidence."
John Morrissett, the director of rules of golf for the United States Golf Association, said he believes Palmer originally got a poor ruling, and perhaps the committee was trying to make up for that when it allowed the second ball to stand. According to Morrissett, it does not appear that Palmer played the second ball correctly.
If it happened today, Morrissett said, Palmer would have had to score the first ball. But the way the rule was written in 1958, there is some room for interpretation.
"Before playing a stroke with either ball, the competitor must announce his intention and must announce which ball he wants to score with," Morrissett said. "Should the competitor fail to announce in advance his procedure or selection, the score with the second ball shall be his score if played in accordance with the rules.
"The only thing that makes me hesitate is the last sentence of the rule ... the second ball is his score," Morrissett said. "My guess is that it was intended to cover a case where a player was playing out both balls simultaneously. That's very different from what it is today. That could very well mean the answer was correct then. I kind of doubt it, but it's possible."
Venturi in no way believes Palmer got special treatment. After all, Palmer was not yet Palmer.
But the making of Arnold Palmer would happen soon enough. He went on to win the Masters again in 1960, birdieing the final two holes. He won his only U.S. Open a few months later, and the idea of the modern Grand Slam was born. He went on to win a total of four Masters, seven major championships and 62 PGA Tour titles. He is now a member of Augusta National.
Palmer has no special celebration planned to mark the 50th anniversary. He will be at the Champions Dinner on Tuesday night. He will hit the ceremonial first tee shot on Thursday morning. And he will surely reminisce.
"Of course, 50 years is a long time," he said. "But it doesn't seem very long right now. The only time it really seems like a long time is when I walk out on the first tee and hit a drive -- then I know it's 50 years."
Bob Harig covers golf for ESPN.com. He can be reached at BobHarig@gmail.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PERTH, Australia -- Michael Sim has withdrawn from the Masters because of a right shoulder injury that has kept him out of golf for the last month.
Sim was to have made his Masters debut. The 25-year-old Australian is one of the few players to have qualified for the Masters from world ranking points earned on the Nationwide Tour.
He had three Nationwide victories last year to earn promotion to the PGA Tour and got off to a strong start this season. He finished second to Ben Crane at Torrey Pines in January. He is expected sidelined another month.
Sim will not be replaced at the Masters, the only major that does not have alternates. His withdrawal Friday reduces the expected field to 97.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEW YORK -- Phil Mickelson's Masters win, with Tiger Woods lurking but never really in contention, drew much higher television ratings than last year but fell far short of the record set by Woods' first title at Augusta.
Sunday's final round on CBS earned a 12.0 overnight rating and 25 share, up 36 percent from last year's 8.8/21 for Angel Cabrera's win in a two-hole playoff. But it didn't come close to matching the 15.8/32 for Woods' first Masters victory in 1997.
It was still the third highest overnight rating for a final round of any golf tournament since at least 1986, which is as far back as the records go. Woods' second Masters title in 2001, when he became the first player to hold all four professional majors at once, drew a 12.9/27.
Woods' return to golf after a sex scandal led to a five-month hiatus generated a ratings increase of 43 percent for first-round coverage on ESPN. Woods was never completely out of it during the weekend, but he wasn't able to make a sustained run at the leaders after three bogeys in four holes on the front nine Saturday.
Ratings represent the percentage of all households with televisions tuned into a program. Shares represent the percentage of all homes with TVs in use at the time. Overnight ratings measure the nation's largest markets.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AUGUSTA, Ga. --  The finishing touch of a most amazing Masters was Charl Schwartzel slipping into a green jacket. Until that moment late Sunday afternoon, everything else at Augusta National was up for grabs.
The roars came from everywhere, for everyone, and never stopped.
Tiger Woods made up a seven-shot deficit in nine holes -- too bad it was the front nine. Geoff Ogilvy ran off five straight birdies. Rory McIlroy matched the greatest collapse in Masters history with a stretch of holes not even Greg Norman would want to watch.
It was so wild that eight players had at least a share of the lead on the back nine.
Schwartzel emerged from all this madness with a magical touch of his own. He became the first Masters champion in its 75-year history to finish with four straight birdies, giving him a 6-under 66 for the best final round by a winner in 22 years.
The green jacket ceremony wasn't so much a celebration as a chance for everyone to catch their breath.
"There's so many roars that go on around Augusta," Schwartzel said. "Especially the back nine. It echoes through those trees. There's always a roar. Every single hole you walk down, someone has done something. And I'd be lying if I said I wasn't looking at the leaderboard."
At times, it was nearly impossible to keep up.
There was a five-way lead at the top at one point, and only the final hour sorted it all out.
Schwartzel didn't have the lead to himself until he knocked in a 10-foot birdie putt on the 17th hole, then put just the right touch on a memorable Sunday with one final birdie putt that only counted toward the final margin.
He won by two shots over Adam Scott and Jason Day, a pair of Australians who didn't drop a single shot on the back nine.
"Just an exciting day," Schwartzel said. "So many roars, and that atmosphere out there was just incredible. A phenomenal day."
Indeed, this final round had it all.
There was the fist-pumping charge by Tiger Woods that was slowed by two putts he missed from inside 4 feet. There was Luke Donald, dumping his tee shot into the pond at No. 12 only to make four birdies over the last six holes, chipping in on the last one.
And then there was McIlroy, whose 80 in the final round might be remembered as much for the classy way he handled it all.
Still leading by one shot as he headed to the back nine, McIlroy hit a tee shot next to the cabins left of the 10th fairway and twice hit a tree to make triple bogey. He three-putted from 7 feet for bogey on the 11th, four-putted from about 12 feet on the next hole and buried his head into his forearm as the shock began to settle in.
McIlroy had the highest final round by a 54-hole leader since Ken Venturi in 1956. Not since Jean Van de Velde at Carnoustie had someone lost at least a four-shot lead going into the last round of the major.
"It's never nice to be leading a tournament and do what I did today," McIlroy said.
On the course he looked as though he wanted to hide. After the round, he looked everyone in the eye and answered every question.
McIlroy also posted a message to his Twitter feed to say: "Well that wasn't the plan! Found it tough going, but you have to lose before you can win. This day will make me stronger."
The steady hand came from Schwartzel, whose only bogey came on the fourth hole as this Masters was just getting warmed up. He made par on 10 consecutive holes when he began his great run.
Schwartzel got up-and-down from behind the 15th green for birdie to briefly tie for the lead, only for Scott to stuff his tee shot into 2 feet up ahead on the par-3 16th. Schwartzel answered with a 15-foot birdie to catch Scott atop the leaderboard again.
Then came the pivotal 17th, where Schwartzel took the lead, and he finished it off in style.
South Africans now have won two of the last three majors, following Louis Oosthuizen winning at St. Andrews last summer. This one came on the 50th anniversary of Gary Player becoming the first international player to win the Masters.
"I am absolutely delighted for Charl and South Africa. Congratulations and very well done to him. That is how you finish like a champion!" Player said on Twitter.
In so many respects, this looked more like 1986 when Jack Nicklaus charged on the back nine to win a sixth green jacket over a Hall of Fame cast of contenders. There were twice as many possibilities at this Masters, though, from Woods and former Masters champion Angel Cabrera, from Ogilvy and Donald, from K.J. Choi and Bo Van Pelt, who made two eagles on the back nine.
Schwartzel set the tone early when he chipped in from some 75 feet across the green for birdie on the opening hole, then holed out from the fairway on No. 3 for eagle. Just like that, McIlroy's four-shot lead was gone.
The cheers were impossible for McIlroy to ignore.
From the second green, where he was scrambling to make par, McIlroy could hear the noise ahead of him for Schwartzel's eagles. Moments later came another roar to his right on the seventh green, where Woods stuffed one close for another birdie.
Woods' red shirt looked a little brighter. He walked a little taller. And the cheers kept coming.
The biggest boom from the gallery came on the par-5 eighth, when Woods knocked in an eagle putt to reach 10 under and tie for the lead. There was no mistaking that sound, or who it was for.
Over the next few minutes, more cheers could be heard from all corners of Augusta each time Woods' score was posted on a leaderboard. He still had the back nine to play, and momentum was on his side.
Not for long, though.
He missed a 3-foot par putt on the 12th, failed to birdie the par-5 13th with a 7-iron for his second shot. Then, after twirling his 7-iron with a shot so pure it settled 4 feet away on the par-5 15th, he missed the 4-foot eagle putt.
Woods closed with a 67, his best final round ever here. But he shot a 36 on the back nine, and that doesn't win the Masters, certainly not this one.
"I got off to a nice start there and posted 31," he said. "And then on the back nine, could have capitalized some more."
Which shot would he like to have back?
"Oh, we can't do that," Woods said. "We do that every week and we would go crazy, wouldn't we?"
Schwartzel finished at 14-under 274 and moves to No. 11 in the world, making him the No. 1 player in South Africa. He is the sixth South African to win a major.
"It's been such a short time to think about what can happen. It's a dream for me," Schwartzel said. "It's obviously the highlight of my golf career, by a long way. I always thought if there was one I would win, it would be this one."
For Scott and Day, it was bitter disappointment for themselves and their country. The Masters is the only major an Australian has never won, and it has become a rallying cry for so many players who watched Norman endure years of heartache.
Scott, who switched to a long putter in February, took the lead for the first time with a short birdie on the 14th and had the look of a winner with his tee shot to tap-in range on the 16th, and a clutch par save from the bunker on the 17th.
He missed his 25-foot birdie putt on the final hole that he ran 4 feet by and settled for a 67.
"I don't think I can ask for anything more," Scott said. "I had a putt at it at the last -- not my best, but everything else was pretty good today."
Day came to life at the end with consecutive birdies that allowed him to shoot 68 and join Scott at 12-under 276. He hugged his wife before going into the scoring hut, only to see Schwartzel play the 18th without any drama.
"I couldn't do anymore than what I just did today," Day said. "Charl played even better golf."
Woods tied for fourth at the Masters for the second straight year, joined by Ogilvy (67) and Luke Donald (69). Ogilvy ran off five consecutive birdies on the back nine -- unforgettable at any other Masters but this one filled with so many highlights. Donald was in the mix until hitting a 9-iron into Rae's Creek on the 12th for double bogey.
He rebounded beautifully, however, and showed his greatest emotion on the 18th. With an awkward lie near the bunker, he scooped a shot that hit the flag and bounced back off the green, and Donald chipped in for birdie.
Ultimately, though, it was Schwartzel slipping into a green jacket.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AUGUSTA, Ga. --  Ryo Ishikawa no longer has to worry about trying to qualify for the Masters. The 20-year-old from Japan received a special invitation for the second time.
Augusta National chairman Billy Payne says the Masters historically invites international players to expand the major's global reach. He says Ishikawa will help increase interest in Japan and throughout Asia.
Ishikawa has won nine times on the Japan Golf Tour. He also received an invitation in 2009 when he was 17. He was the second-youngest player to compete in the Masters.
In the last 10 years, the only player not from Asia to receive a special invitation to the Masters was Greg Norman in 2002.
Among those yet to qualify this year is Ernie Els of South Africa.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AUGUSTA, Ga. -- After shooting a second-round 75 on Friday, Tiger Woods hit balls into the night on the driving range at Augusta National.  The four-time Masters champion was alone on that beautiful practice facility in the dark with his teacher, Sean Foley, and caddie, Joe LaCava.
The frustration that he had felt with his golf swing during his round had carried over to this solitary moment. There was such urgency to the mood that it seemed as if Tiger believed that each swing held some invaluable clue that would solve all of his problems.
His hurry to hit as many balls as possible before it got too dark to see was a reflection of his impatience with his game; his disappointment and disbelief at how his swing had seemingly unraveled less than two weeks after an impressive win at Bay Hill.
Disappointment. Disbelief. Belief. Joy.
These were very salient themes of this year's Masters: themes that grew out of an abundance of images and events that only a tournament as big as the Masters could contain. From Tiger to Rory McIlroy to Phil Mickelson to Sergio Garcia to Louis Oosthuizen to Bubba Watson there was a chain of emotions that carried the weight of the week.
When the tournament started Tiger and Rory seemed destined to meet in a showdown at Amen Corner on Sunday afternoon. But by the end of the third round neither player had a realistic chance of winning. While Tiger's realization of a disappointing Masters came on Friday night, McIlroy wouldn't have his until Saturday when he shot a 42 on the front nine after starting the day a shot back of the lead.
McIlroy and Garcia had played so poorly in the same pairing on Saturday that they hugged when they both made birdies at the par-3 12th.
Mickelson, another popular favorite, still had a chance on Sunday until a triple-bogey on the par-3 4th hole.  He still might have gotten into the playoff with Oosthuizen and Watson with two more birdies on the back nine, but no one had ever won a Masters with a triple-bogey on their Sunday scorecard.
Self-belief wasn't a problem for Woods, McIlroy and Mickelson. Their disappointment was a palpable response to the confidence that they had brought into the tournament. Their high expectations of themselves made not winning all the more painful.
Belief.
It's what helped Watson execute that big roping hook out of the woods on the 10th in the second playoff hole against Oosthuizen. He believes in what he's doing no matter how unconventional it might seem to the astute golf observer.
"I just play the game, the game that I love.  And truthfully, it's like Seve [Ballesteros] played.  He hit shots that were unbelievable," Bubba said Sunday night. "Phil Mickelson hits the shot, he goes for it.
"And that's why he wins so many times.  That's why he's not afraid.  So for me that's what I do.  I just play golf.  I attack.  I always attack."
Belief and disbelief.
Belief explains why Bubba won on Sunday and disbelief explains why Garcia finished in a tie for 12th. After a 75 on Saturday, the 32-year-old Spaniard told the press that he wasn't good enough to win a major.
"I'm not good enough, and today I know it," he said. "I've been trying for 13 years, and I don't feel capable of winning. I don't know what happened to me. Maybe it's something psychological.   I'm not good enough for the majors."
It was such a baffling thing for a world-class player to say publically that on Sunday he was asked to elaborate on the subject. "Everything I say, I say it because I feel it.  If I didn't mean it, I couldn't stand here and lie like a lot of the guys do. If I felt like I could win, I would do it," he said after a final-round 1-under 71.
Belief and disbelief.
One man is full of joy and hope, while another is full of resignation and self-pity.  The Masters creates those kinds of juxtapositions.
This week the tournament reentered the cultural wars as speculation arose over the possibility of the all-male club accepting a female member. The alleged candidate is Virginia Rometty, the new CEO of IBM, a company with long ties to the Masters.  Many people find it unbelievable that it's 2012 and there are still no women members at one of the most famous golf clubs in the world. A few generations ago it would have been inconceivable for there to have been women or African-Americans in the membership. This week I saw several black members walking the grounds in their green jackets.
Belief and disbelief.
On Sunday night, Bubba Watson flew home to the Orlando area to share his amazing win with his wife and new adopted baby, Caleb. The adoption process, which took four years, had been difficult for Bubba and his wife, Angie.
They had asked for prayers from their friends on tour through the process. They had been turned down by another adoption agency on the Monday of Bay Hill.  But a few days later they accepted a baby boy through a California adoption agency called Chicks in Crisis.
"It's just we knew that we had to adopt back when we first started dating. The first date me and Angie ever had, she told me she was going to have to adopt, she couldn't have kids and I said, "That's fine.'  I said, 'If God tells us he wants us to adopt, we'll adopt,'" Bubba said Sunday.
Disappointment. Disbelief. Belief. Joy.
Year after year the Masters nurtures all these conditions. Some lay dormant while others grow and blossom like a newborn baby.  The arc isn't closed on the careers of Tiger, Rory, Phil or Sergio. They will have many more chances at green jackets. They will realize some of their dreams.
Perhaps the best line of the tournament came from Bubba shortly after his win.  "I've never had a dream go this far," he said.
But he had faith that something great would happen for him. That's belief and joy.
Farrell Evans covers golf for ESPN and can be contacted at evans.espn@gmail.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Thursday, March 7.
SOMEWHERE NEAR KUNMING, CHINA -- A thick, greyish haze, the color of cream of mushroom soup, sits stubbornly over a hilly countryside dotted with construction cranes. Our shuttle van, a silver Mercedes number that could seat the entire "Duck Dynasty," is doing 85, easy, on the eight-lane freeway.
The driver glances back at me in the rearview mirror and makes a decision. She taps a CD into the front console slot, turns up the volume dial and in moments the van's speakers are cranking out some sort of terrifying Kenny G knockoff Christmas collection, beginning with "Frosty The Snowman."
I stare out the window. It's early March. There's another hour to go before I meet a 14-year-old golfer more famous outside his country than in it.
His name is Tianlang Guan (pronounced "Tin-Long"). His friends and family call him "Langlang" (pronounced "Long-long"). And there's also an English version: "Langly."
But forget the name thing for a moment. All that really matters is this: he's 14 and the youngest player in the history of the Masters, and the second-youngest player ever to compete in a major. Or as his golf hero, Tiger Woods, put it a few weeks ago: "It's frightening to think that he was born after I won my first Masters. I mean, that's just frightening."
It isn't every day that a Chinese teenager, whose Communist government is lukewarm about bourgeois golf, qualifies for the Masters. But that's what happened last November at the Asia-Pacific Amateur Championship in Chonburi, Thailand.
Tianlang, the youngest player in the 120-man field, was five exits past longshot status. Ranked 490th in the world amateur rankings at the time, he was a tournament afterthought.
He led after the first round. Yawn. And the second round. Interesting. And the third round. Hmmm. Of course, he'd fold like a table napkin in the final round and that would be that.
Except he didn't fold. The older, more acclaimed amateurs of South Korea, Taiwan, Australia, New Zealand, Thailand, Japan, etc., tried to make their Sunday runs at him, but Tianlang clung to the lead.
On the final hole of regulation, he needed to sink a 5-footer for par to win the tournament and the automatic Masters invitation that came with the victory. There are PGA Tour pros whose legs would turn into mashed potatoes standing over that putt. Tianlang knocked it into the beefy part of the cup.
Replays show his father, Hanwen Guan, ducking under the gallery rope, sprinting down a hill bordering the 18th green and then hugging his son. Replays also show Tianlang's expression, which borders somewhere between comatose and a guy reading federal tax code.
Anyway, he was in the Masters, the news of which caused jaws to drop around the golf world. Not only had he secured one of those precious invites to Augusta National, but he had nearly unseated Young Tom Morris from the record books. Young Tom was 14 years, 4 months when he played in the 1865 Open Championship. Tianlang will be 14 years, 5 months when he steps to the first tee on Thursday.
To put this in better perspective, Nick Faldo was 21 when he first played there, Phil Mickelson was 20 and both Jack Nicklaus and Woods were 19. Nicklaus has golf gloves older than Tianlang.
Assorted news outlets reported afterward that Tianlang tweeted: "I want to win the US Masters at Augusta." But according to his press liaison for the Masters, it came from a fake Twitter account.
This makes sense, especially after I meet Tianlang and his father as they play the Nicklaus Mountain course at the Spring City Resort near Kunming. There is a shy hello near the green, a hurried handshake and a few moments of small talk; Tianlang speaks English fairly well, his dad hardly at all. And then I notice Tianlang growing impatient. He wants to get back to work.
The two courses at Spring City (the Nicklaus track and a Robert Trent Jones II layout) are known for having the fastest greens in China. Since Augusta National is known for having the fastest greens this side of a marble floor, Tianlang has a need for speed. So he and his dad will spend the next three days here. The superintendent of the courses has done his part, rolling the greens to raise the Stimpmeter reading from 11.5 to 13.4.
When the pollution drifts away, this is a stunningly beautiful place. Cliffs nearly encircle the Yangzonghai Lake and the temperature is San Diego-ish: cool in the morning and night, warm during the day. Yeah, OK, I could do without the massive aluminum plant on the other side of the lake, but you can't have everything.
Security guards wearing white helmets salute when you enter the resort. And near the clubhouse there is a virtual army of caddies -- all women and all wearing green uniforms. They ride on the back of the golf carts.
I take a peek at Tianlang's worn orange, blue and white golf bag, which looks like a hand-me-down from the University of Illinois team. He has four different makes of clubs and there's no mistaking the belly putter sticking its neck out from the bag.
Tianlang is almost 5-foot-9 and weighs 143 pounds, which is about 10 pounds heavier than when he won the Asia-Pacific Amateur. He hits his driver about 250 yards or so, which would rank him 63rd on the tour. ... the LPGA Tour. He makes Mike Weir look like Bubba Watson.
But reality check: He's 14 years old. And by the way, when you put a wedge or a putter in his hand, he either sticks it close to the pin or sinks it.
After his round (followed by a long session on the putting green), we meet for dinner in the resort dining room. I hand Tianlang a 2012 Masters Annual that I brought from home (Augusta National sends one each year to writers covering the tournament). He thumbs slowly through the pages, as if he's memorizing each photo, story, stat and yardage.
The dinner group includes Tianlang, his father, a media relations consultant from Hong Kong, our ESPN crew of five and a "fixer" (part interpreter, part problem-solver). There is probably someone else at the table, but I can't remember after the drink toasts.
I've never done shots of jet fuel, but if I did, I think it would taste like Chinese vodka. Mr. Guan keeps standing up and offering toasts. Our interpreter says it would be impolite and a loss of face for Mr. Guan if we don't take part.
So three or four shots later, I'm cracking wise, yukking it up to the Guans. That's when the interpreter leans over and says discreetly, "Mr. Guan does not understand your particular sense of humor."
Smoking is allowed in the restaurant. So, apparently, is pulling your golf shirt up to your neck and scratching your belly. Not me -- the guy at the table behind us -- the same table where a bucket of ice and a huge bottle of Johnnie Walker sit as centerpieces.
I like China.
Friday, March 8.
Tianlang is the only child of Hanwen and Hongyu Guan. There are a lot of only children in China because of the country's birth control policy.
"When he was born," says Hanwen through the interpreter, "it was about 6 or 7 o'clock. The sunrise was so nice. The sun was just climbing up. The sky was so beautiful."
So he was named, Tianlang, which means, "beautiful, sunny day."
He hit his first driving range ball when he was 4. He watched his first Masters when he was 5. He began winning junior tournaments throughout China and later, in the United States.
"At first, I just play for fun, so after maybe a couple of years I feel I can do well in it and I just really practice working hard," Tianlang said.
Yes, the kid is a worker bee. He doesn't screw around on the driving range at Spring City or during rounds on the Lake or Mountain courses. He is 14 going on 44.
"When he first told me about his dream in golf, I just thought that he was only a kid speaking about his dream casually," says Hanwen. "It was like saying, `I have a big ambition.' Like saying, `I want to go to [outer] space,' or, `I want to be a Superman.' That sort of thing."
Hanwen is part father, part caddie, part swing coach, part friend. He gave up his medical practice to devote his time to his son's golf dream. He dotes lovingly on Tianlang, even to the point of spreading sunscreen on his son's face and ears.
"It is a close relationship between father and son in a traditional Chinese family," says Hanwen. "A relationship between friends and sometimes, he is my boss. For quite a lot of time, I would listen to him."
It isn't uncommon in China for small children to be sent to nurseries for days at a time so their parents can work full time. Tianlang was 3 years old when he spent five days a week at the nursery, returning home only on the weekends.
"You will find that he is kind of independent, he is cool," says Hanwen. "Maybe because he was sent to nursery and had to face so many circumstances on his own. Maybe he plays golf so well also because of the same reason."
Tianlang doesn't do many chores around the house. He doesn't get an allowance. School work and golf are his jobs.
When he was 13, Tianlang competed in the Volvo China Open, becoming the youngest player in European Tour history. He has played in the Australian Open, the Australian Masters and tried (and failed) to qualify for the Open Championship. He's sort of used to this history thing.
But Chinese golf isn't. As our crew follows Tianlang during a Friday morning round, I chat up Elvin Chua, a marketing executive whose company oversees the Spring City resort.
Golf, said Chua, is considered by the government and most of its 1.3 billion citizens as a rich person's sport, a "Western" game. Table tennis, soccer, badminton, swimming, basketball -- those are the sports of choice in China. Golf, which was banned in China until 1984, is a boutique sport.
That's why Tianlang is so important. The more exposure he gains and the more success he has, the better the chances are that the government reclassifies golf as a game of the people. The Masters is a nice start.
Five different networks will carry TV coverage in China. In the past, perhaps three sportswriters for China-based publications would cover the Masters. This year, it could be as many as a dozen.
Consider it The Tianlang Effect.
Saturday, March 9.
The more I watch Tianlang, the more I realize he isn't coming to Augusta National to miss the cut, stash a bathrobe from his stay in the Crow's Nest and chow down on pimento cheese sandwiches. Everything he does during his practice rounds has the Masters in mind. He shapes shots. He wants to putt on the fastest parts of the greens. He looks for sidehill, uphill and downhill lies off the shortest cuts possible -- just like the ones you'll find at Augusta.
Hanwen, who once played to a single-digit handicap, wants to call it a day on the 10th hole of their afternoon practice round. Tianlang asks for two more holes of work.
Guess who gets his way? They play two more holes.
Afterward, an interview for a TV piece. Tianlang insists on doing his interview in English.
Things you should know about Tianlang:
-- Favorite golfer: Tiger. ("He has a strong mind and really focus on his game too. And a strong heart.")
-- Favorite hoops player: Kobe Bryant.
-- Dream practice round foursome at the Masters: Tiger, Nicklaus, Tom Watson (the kid has some old school in him). Alternate: Bubba.
-- Nicklaus wrote Tianlang a letter of congratulations after the Asia-Pacific Amateur win.
-- He can sort of do the Gangnam Style dance.
-- He has been watching videos of past Masters as prep work.
-- Less than a handful of students at his school (enrollment: about 3,100) play golf.
Ask him if he's scared about playing in the Masters, and he half-shrugs.
"Probably a little bit right now, but I think I will do it well," he says.
Dinner is another big affair. A huge Lazy Susan groans with food. Jet fuel is poured. More toasts are made.
English and physical education are Tianlang's two favorite school subjects, but tonight after his meal he hunkers down with a video tablet for his nightly math lesson.
Later, I see him alone at a table reading the Masters Annual.
Sunday, March 10.
GUANGZHOU -- We bug out for the two-hour flight to the Guans' hometown of Guangzhou. In case you didn't know, Guangzhou is Pittsburgh on HGH.
Three rivers (the East, West and North) merge to form the Pearl River here. This is the third-largest city in China, which is saying something. Thirteen million people live here, more than the entire population of Pennsylvania or Illinois.
Across the street from the Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport (which makes LaGuardia look like a place to land crop dusters), we meet Asia and European touring golf pro Wenchong Liang.
If China had a Mt. Rushmore of golfers, Liang would be on it. He's played in the Masters, the Open Championship and the PGA Championship (a T-8 in 2010). He is also Tianlang's golf mentor.
Liang didn't sugarcoat it when talking about Tianlang's victory at the Asia-Pacific Amateur.
"Everyone, including the young, amateur, professional, Asia, or even worldwide golf players, were shocked by the news, just like me," he says through an interpreter.
It was Liang who convinced Tianlang's parents that it was OK if their son did more physical training. It was Liang who advised the Guans that they leave early for Augusta to acclimate Tianlang to the States and to the course. And it was Liang who gave Tianlang the advice that matters when playing Augusta National.
"Distance is not short and the green is complicated," Liang said.
That about sums it up. Plus, the patrons are 25 thick in spots and, oh, yeah, it's a major and he's only 14 years old.
"We must persist to make the impossible possible and looking forward to seeing that happen," he said.
For the record, Liang was 29 when he played in the 2008 Masters. He missed the cut.
"Whenever I recall the Masters. … I still feel the same," he says.
Then he taps his heart. Translation: It beat harder and faster than ever that Thursday in 2008.
Monday, March 11.
A pair of guardian lion statues bracket the entrance to Zhixin High School, where Tianlang is an eighth grader. His attendance has been spotty because of tournament play and because of his preparation for the Masters (this is his first day back in more than a month) -- and it's about to get a lot worse.
The city public school is one of Guangzhou's best. At 7:05 a.m., the gates open, and by 7:15, students with wicker baskets are raking up the leaves in the courtyard that separates the junior high building from the high school building. Student greeters wearing red sashes stand at the front gate to welcome their classmates.
Tianlang hurries up the steps to his classroom only minutes before school begins. He's wearing dark slacks and a white shirt that soon will include a Young Pioneer red scarf wrapped around the neck. Young Pioneers are sort of like little league Communists. It's a big deal here.
Not long after classes convene, the buildings empty for the morning assembly in an athletic field ringed by apartment high-rises. The flag is raised. Songs are sung. Announcements are made, including one that acknowledges Tianlang.
Then it's back to math class, where v=1463/t, y=1000/x and s=1.61.x10(4)/n. Four fans hang from the ceiling and spit out air on a cool, slightly muggy morning. A teacher wearing Burberry boots emerges from a nearby workroom and gives me the stink eye as I stand in the hallway.
Meanwhile, as students take turns solving problems on the blackboard, a kid sitting across from Tianlang on the back row does what all eighth graders do in math class: he falls asleep.
Someone wads up a piece of notebook paper and tosses it at the kid's head. He wakes up, groggy, disoriented. And then he plops back down.
Tianlang is summoned to the blackboard. He gets most of the equation right, but then struggles at the end. His classmates help him figure out the answer and then applaud as he returns to his seat.
There is an exercise session, then more classes and then Tianlang is done for the day. He plays basketball and a few hours later is at the Jinye Golf Club, a plush city driving range with a country club feel.
Inside the facility there are oversized photos of Mickelson, Ian Poulter, Michelle Wie, Lee Westwood and, of course, Woods. VIP rooms feature privacy walls, a bathroom, shower, big screen TV, couches, magazine rack, tea maker, a huge supply of golf balls and two separate grass mats. There are 108 stalls in all.
Tianlang is there to test different club shafts. One of the club specialists is brewing a pot of afternoon tea when Tianlang and his dad enter the shop at 4:50.
The practice session lasts two hours. Tianlang has been doing this for months, years.
Two friends -- 12-year-old "Jimmy" Wang and 11-year old "Q-Q" Liang -- join Tianlang on the range. Tianlang is their role model. Jimmy is even wearing an old pair of lime-green golf pants that Tianlang gave him.
As they hit balls, other golfers, mostly the 21-handicap variety, stop to watch the kids' near-perfect swings. I watch one player shake his head, mutter something and then return to his mat, where he executes his 11-piece takeaway.
About 20 yards away, on the office door of the teaching pros, is a huge poster of Woods as a toddler. He's swinging a cut-down club. In the top left corner of the poster, is Chinese writing.
Translated, it reads: "When Tiger was almost 3 years old and he doesn't have any training yet, he already can swing like a pro."
For Tianlang, it's the driving range during the week, the golf course on the weekends (his dad is a member at a nearby club) and anonymity just about all seven days. Tianlang is famous -- it's just that the rest of China doesn't know it yet.
"He's not a star," said Smile Xu, managing director of a Hong Kong-based marketing firm handling Tianlang's media requests leading up to the Masters. "Even at school, students don't treat him different."
But he is different. After his practice session, he spends a few minutes in the driving range lounge area playing several holes of a Woods video game that features Augusta National. I push a button on the control console to move directly to the 10th hole.
"Here we go," I say.
"This is No. 10?" he says.
"Yep, this is it."
Tianlang looks at me, too polite to correct my mistake.
Then it hits me: I've pressed the wrong button. It isn't the par-4 10th.
Tianlang, it turns out, apparently has already memorized all the holes. Maybe it was those Masters DVDs, or the Masters telecasts, or even the Masters Annual, but he knows them like a multiplication table.
Wednesday, March 13.
SHENZHEN -- Sir Nick is late.
That would be Nick Faldo, winner of three Masters and three Open Championships. He's at Mission Hills on business and to give Tianlang's game a look-see and provide some Augusta National inside knowledge.
It isn't exactly a private lesson. There are a dozen TV cameramen and photographers, a handful of reporters and assorted PR personnel, equipment technicians and hotel guests from the massive golf resort.
At 8:48 a.m., Faldo arrives and begins to dispense Masters advice, all of it worthwhile.
The nuggets: "Hit and enjoy. Putt from every position on the greens. Take an Augusta National yardage book and step off the numbers yourself. Never underestimate how big the breaks are on those greens. Know exactly how long your irons carry. Practice downhill putts. Know where to miss it. Practice 1-yard chips. Don't waste your time working on 50-yard bunker shots; there aren't any at Augusta. Pray the winds don't swirl."
Faldo works with Tianlang on his knockdown shots. He makes him hit a high fade, a high draw, a low fade, a low draw. He tells the teenager he needs to hit down on his wedges to create more backspin. He says Tianlang will need 10 mph more of swing speed by the Masters.
There's a chipping lesson. Tianlang aces it. Then Hanwen pulls out a couple of Faldo's instructional books for autograph signing.
"To Tianlang, Good Golfing," writes Faldo, who promises to give him his old Augusta National yardage books to study. The two are scheduled to play the Par-3 Tournament together.
Tianlang and his dad hustle back to Guangzhou to finish packing for the 26-hour trip to Augusta. They're leaving tonight.
Meanwhile, we make our way to Sand River Golf Club in Shenzhen, which is another multi-deck, luxury driving range facility. Canadian Dan Webb, a former minor league hockey player-turned-professional golf instructor, has a history of working with Tianlang.
They first met when Tianlang was 6. By then, Tianlang could imitate the swings of Jim Furyk (yikes), Ernie Els, Woods and for reasons unknown, Chris DiMarco.
"And then he'd do his own swing," said Webb. "Five swings."
Webb caddied for Tianlang at the Volvo China Open. He said he was amazed by the then-13-year-old's composure. He doesn't expect that to change at the Masters.
"I would think a 14-year old would freak out," said Webb. "But I don't think he will. ... It's really tough to penetrate his personality. I'm sure it's busy inside there. But by his demeanor, it's just so calm -- so genuinely calm to the bone."
We drive back to Guangzhou and wait at the airport terminal. About 90 minutes before their flight leaves, the Guans make their way to the ticketing desk. Tianlang pushes a luggage cart filled with suitcases and his golf bag. Nobody recognizes him.
Monday, March 18.
AUGUSTA, Ga. -- The rental car slowly makes it way down the most famous street in golf. Hanwen and Tianlang have seen Magnolia Lane on TV, but this is different. This is real.
"Beautiful," gushes Hanwen, from behind the wheel.
Club pro Tony Sessa and several other club officials greet father and son. Tianlang is here for his first practice round at Augusta National.
Sessa gives him a quick tour. He shows them the room in the clubhouse where each past champion has donated a club to the collection.
"So if and when you win the Masters one day, you'll have to give us one of the clubs you used to win it," says Sessa.
Tianlang nods seriously, as if he's already thinking about which club he'd hand over.
There are questions asked by a Masters innocent.
Tianlang: "What is the speed of the greens?"
Sessa: "We don't have a number. We call the green speed, 'tournament speed.' But there is no number."
Sessa walks them to a parking lot. He glances at Tianlang.
"This is transportation -- all the players get a courtesy car," says Sessa. "I assume you are not old enough to drive yet, so, Dad, you come here to register to get your car."
"Beautiful," says Hanwen.
A caddie named Gray Moore, decked out in the standard-issue white Augusta National jumpsuit, has been assigned to Tianlang for the day. Moore is Augusta-born and raised and has been caddying at the club since 1996.
"Glad you're here," says Moore to the Guans in a biscuit gravy-thick Southern accent. "Congratulations."
While the members hit balls on the smaller driving range, Tianlang gets the nearby huge pro range all to himself. He hits a couple dozen shots, chips for about 10 minutes and then makes his way to the tip of the No. 1 tee box.
"You ready to play?" says Sessa, who is waiting for them.
And for the next four hours or so, Tianlang has a gas. Moore holds his hand by pointing out shot lines for the fairways and fall lines on the greens. He places markers on each green to give Tianlang an idea where the pins will likely be placed during the tournament.
And he doesn't stop at Thursday and Friday. He gives the Saturday and Sunday pin placements too.
Tianlang isn't going to be able to reach any of the par-5s in two shots. That's OK -- Zach Johnson won a green jacket doing the same thing. But there are a few par-4s (No. 7, in particular) that Tianlang might have difficulty reaching or holding in two.
As the practice round progresses, you can see Moore's level of respect grow. Tianlang's short game is precise. His iron and fairway wood play is solid. His drives are a little longer than expected.
"He's still world-class," says Moore. "And 14? Amazing. He's played beautifully."
As they make the turn, a foursome comes off the 18th green.
"How old is he? Eighteen?" asks one of the member's guests.
"No, 14," says another guest.
A photo is taken. "Might be worth something one day," says one of the guests.
The group's caddie circles over to say hello to Hanwen.
"I'm father," says Mr. Guan.
"Congratulations," says the caddie, shaking Hanwen's hand.
On No. 10, Tianlang asks Moore to show him exactly where Bubba escaped the Georgia pine straw to win last year's Masters in a playoff.
"Where?" says Tianlang, as they walk off the fairway toward the trees.
"Right here," says Moore, "that is where he was."
"Oh, so. . . still a little room here."
"He was way in there."
"A little bit."
"He had to snap hook it. He aimed for the middle of the bunker and hooked the gap wedge."
"Yeah, I got it -- 150 [yards]."
"Yeah, 152."
See, the kid knows his history. He knows what bunkers Mickelson performed miracles out of. He knows how many times Nicklaus has won here. He knows the line of Tiger's chip on No. 16, the one that CBS's Verne Lundquist simply said, "In your LIFE, have you seen anything like that?"
Tianlang pars the always-gorgeous par-3 12th. He tries to reach the par-5 13th in two, but almost puts it in Rae's Creek. Doesn't matter. He chips up and two putts for par.
I didn't keep score, but Tianlang couldn't have shot much worse than even-par 72 or 73. If he was nervous, he didn't show it.
"Everybody will be pulling for him," said Moore.
How can you not pull for a 14-year-old whose own superpower country doesn't fully appreciate what will happen here Thursday? How can you not admire his mixture of innocence and focus?
He has thought about Augusta National ever since he sank that 5-foot putt last November in Thailand.
"But when I came here today, it really seems to come true," Tianlang said.
What was it Hanwen said about his son's golf dreams? That it was like someone wanting to be Superman.
Well, guess who got his cape?
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AUGUSTA, Ga. -- The Masters is increasing the number of players who make the 36-hole cut from 44 and ties to 50 and ties beginning this year while maintaining that anyone within 10 strokes of the lead will advance to the weekend.
The tournament that dates to 1934 first instituted a cut to 40 players and ties and then to 44 and ties in 1962.
Club chairman Billy Payne announced the change Wednesday at his annual news conference preceding the tournament.
"We believe offering more playing opportunities for the participants over the weekend is a positive for everyone involved," Payne said.
Payne also said the tournament would extend its "win-and-you're-in" criteria to winners of PGA Tour events in the fall because of the new wraparound schedule that begins later this year.
Previously, tournaments after the Tour Championship did not receive full FedEx Cup points, thus their winners did not automatically receive a Masters invitation.
"All of us take great pride and pleasure in seeing a tournament winner beam with pride and excitement knowing that his victory had earned him an invitation to the Masters," Payne said.
To accommodate the additional players, the Masters is scaling back three other qualification criteria: The top 12 (down from 16) from the Masters will earn invitations the next year; the top four (no longer the top eight) from the U.S. Open, which is in keeping with the Open Championship and PGA Championship; and removal of top 30 on the PGA Tour money list (the top 30 in FedEx Cup points earn an invitation).
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AUGUSTA, Ga. -- Tiger Woods got a bad break, took a bad drop, but lived to play the weekend at the Masters -- with two strokes added to his score -- due to a revision to the Rules of Golf made two years ago.
Woods was deemed to have taken an improper drop on the 15th hole during the second round of the Masters at Augusta National on Friday when his approach shot hit the pin and bounced back into the water.
He made a bogey-6 on the hole, which on Saturday morning was revised to a triple-bogey 8.
Instead of a 1-under-par 71 he was given a 73. Woods shot a 70 in the third round Saturday and is at 3 under for the tournament.
Woods explained the situation on Twitter on Saturday morning.
"At hole #15, I took a drop that I thought was correct and in accordance with the rules," Woods wrote. "I was unaware at that time I had violated any rules. I didn't know I had taken an incorrect drop prior to signing my scorecard. Subsequently, I met with the Masters Committee Saturday morning... and was advised they had reviewed the incident prior to the completion of my round. Their initial determination...
 was that there was no violation, but they had additional concerns based on my post-round interview. After discussing the situation...
 with them this morning, I was assessed a two-shot penalty. I understand and accept the penalty and respect the Committees' decision."
Before 2012, Woods would have been disqualified for signing an incorrect scorecard.
Under new rules enacted by the United States Golf Association and R&A in 2011, a player can have penalty strokes added afterward when facts were not reasonably presented at the time of scorecard signing.
"This is a logical and important step in our re-evalution of the impact of high-definition video on the game,'' said USGA executive director Mike Davis at the time the new rule was announced in August 2011. "We collectively believe that this revised decision addressed many video-related issues never contemplated by the Rules of Golf.''
Fred Ridley, former president of the USGA and the chairman of the Masters competition committees, detailed the timeline of events surrounding the penalty in a statement released Saturday morning.
"After being prompted by a television viewer, the Rules Committee reviewed a video of the shot while he was playing the 18th hole," Ridley said in the statement. "At that moment, based on the evidence, the committee determined he had complied with the rules.
"After he signed his scorecard, and in a television interview subsequent to the round, the player stated that he played further from the point than where he had played his third shot. Such action would constitute playing from the wrong place.
"The subsequent information provided by the player's interview after he had completed play warranted further review and discussion with him this morning. After meeting with the player, it was determined that he had violated Rule 26, and he was assessed a two-stroke penalty. The penalty of disqualification was waived by the committee under Rule 33 as the committee had previously reviewed the information and made it's intitial determination prior to the finish of the player's round.''
Ridley later said they had consulted with the USGA, which agreed on the decision not to disqualify Woods.
Woods learned of the brewing controversy when his agent notified him by phone early Saturday morning.
Mark Steinberg said he called Woods to discuss the situation, at which point the golfer quickly made arrangements to get to Augusta National and discuss the violation.
"He came in, didn't do it by phone, came in here and explained what happened yesterday,'' Steinberg said. "He was not doing any negotiating. He was coming in to explain himself. Whatever decision was going to be rendered, he was going to respectfully accept it. He abided by the rules of golf.''
Reaction was swift and all over the golf map as the story unfolded overnight and into Saturday morning.
Three-time Masters champion Nick Faldo said on the Golf Channel: "Tiger should really sit down and think about this and what it will leave on his legacy. Personally, I think this is dreadful. ... That was no intention to drop close to the divot.''
But current players were positive in their reaction, though defending champion Bubba Watson bristled at the idea a TV viewer can change the course of a tournament by calling in with their observations.
Watson, after shooting a third-round 70 to climb to 2 over, said unlike the TV viewer who raised the issue Friday with Masters officials, he wouldn't even know who to call if he saw someone breaking a rule.
"So I don't even know how these people get a number to call," Watson said. "And obviously they got more time on their hands than I do, because I don't know the number and I'm playing in the golf tournament."
Watson said he was glad Rule 33 was adjusted.
"It should protect us," Watson said. "The sad thing is the high-profile player gets the camera on him at all times. A guy could break a rule and not know he broke the rule. Like me today, there's no cameras on me today, everybody could care less what I was doing."
But Watson said TV viewers shouldn't be able to affect how players make rule decisions.
"So when somebody calls in like that, yeah, it shouldn't be that way, it shouldn't be allowed," Watson said. "Nobody calls in during a basketball game or a football game."
Fred Couples called the rule adjustment "a blessing for every golf pro in the world."
"We all know that we'll get the same ruling if it happens to one of us," said Couples, 1 shot back entering Saturday's round.
Graeme McDowell, who at 5 over missed the cut by 1 shot, tweeted Saturday morning that he agreed with the penalty.
"Take the fact that it was Tiger out of the equation and it is a fair ruling," McDowell posted to Twitter.
Hunter Mahan, who shot a second-round 82 and missed the cut at 14 over, also weighed in via Twitter.
"I like this ruling because he took an illegal drop but no official brought it to his attn," Mahan wrote.
Woods was 5-under par and tied for the lead when he played his third shot to the par-5 15th. He had 87 yards to the hole and saw his ball hit the flagstick and then roll back off the green and into the water.
Under Rule 26-1, Woods had three options at the yellow-staked (not lateral) hazard, which is a pond that fronts the green:
• He could have played from a designated drop area, which he chose not to do because he did not like the lie.
• He could drop the ball, keeping the point where it last crossed the margin of the water between the hole and the spot on which the ball would be dropped. Since the ball entered the water well left of Woods' position from the fairway, Woods did not choose this option – which would have allowed him to drop on a straight line as far back as he wanted.
• Or, he could return to the original spot from which he played, and drop "as nearly as possible,'' from where he played the third shot.
The question appeared to be whether Woods droped the ball as near as possible to his original spot. The ruling said no.
After the round, Woods said: "I went back to where I played it from, but I went 2yards further back and I took, tried to take two yards off the shot of what I felt I hit.''
Two yards was not close enough.
"Still not convinced he will play,'' said Woods' former coach, Hank Haney, on Twitter, suggesting that Woods might withdraw.
Woods also had an issue with an improper drop earlier this year at the Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship, where a two-stroke penalty caused him to miss the cut.
Woods mistakenly thought he could take relief from an imbedded lie on the fifth hole, and had even sought fellow player Martin Kaymer to ask his opinion. Kaymer agreed, so Woods took a drop.
But later a rules official determined that it was a sandy area, meaning Woods was not entitled to a drop; he should have played it or taken an unplayable lie, a one-stroke penalty.
Woods did not challenge the ruling afterward and the two-shot penalty was added to his score, meaning he went from one stroke inside the cut to missing by one stroke.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Brandt Snedeker talks about his disappointing final round at the 2008 Masters. (2:42)
AUGUSTA, Ga. -- Tiger Woods screwed up. He knows it ... now. Masters rules officials know it ... now. A television viewer knew it ... Friday?
Woods and Spain's Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano were introduced to the Masters patrons gathered 10 and 20 deep against the ropes of the No. 1 tee box at 1:45 p.m. ET on Saturday. And as much as it feels wrong or weird or ungentlemanly that Woods is still playing in this tournament, he has zilch to apologize for. That was true before he teed off. And it was true after he finished early Saturday evening.
As for the Masters rules committee, that's another issue.
Woods made an illegal drop during the second round. This is inarguable. It's inarguable because Woods admitted during his post-round interviews Friday that he dropped the ball "2 yards further back" than the original divot made while hitting his third shot on the par-5 15th hole. You can't do that.
Except that Woods didn't realize he had done anything wrong. Nor did his playing partners. Nor, apparently, did the rules official assigned to the hole. Nor did the rules committee, which reviewed a TV viewer call-in and took a pass. Nor did any of us geniuses in the media.
"I wasn't even really thinking," said Woods of The Drop That Shook The Masters. "I was still a little ticked at what happened [his ball caromed off the pin and into a pond]. ... It's pretty obvious I didn't drop in the right spot."
Woods is many things, but he wouldn't take a crowbar to his Masters chances by intentionally violating the rules of golf (seemingly all 10 million of them). He obviously doesn't know all the rules, but nobody can really think he was purposely trying to pull a fast one on worldwide television -- and then brag about it in a post-round presser, right?
If the rules committee had told him to pack his golf bag Friday -- that he was disqualified for signing a wrong scorecard because he didn't assess himself a penalty for an illegal drop -- Woods would have done so. And done so without argument. He wouldn't have been happy about it, but remember what he said Friday when asked about the 1-shot penalty given to teenage Chinese amateur Tianlang Guan for slow play: "Well, rules are rules."
Woods broke a ball-drop rule -- or more correctly, he played from the wrong place after a ball-drop violation. Simple as that. Then the rules committee botched a review of the drop. Simple as that. Then Woods said what he said about the 2 yards.
And then nothing became simple.
My initial gut reaction: He should have been disqualified. If he wasn't DQ'd, he should have withdrawn from the tournament. After all, whether he realized it or not, Woods had broken a rule and had eventually signed an incorrect scorecard.
It would have been the noble thing for Woods to withdraw. I still believe that. But it wouldn't have been the practical -- or correct -- thing to do.
Woods screwed up, but the rules committee compounded the mistake by not doing its due diligence after the TV viewer called in to a rules official. Rather than review the situation with Woods immediately after the round (and before he signed his scorecard), the committee chose to make a decision before the completion of his round.
Sorry, what's the hurry?
Instead, Woods never heard a peep from the committee. He signed his card and told reporters that he did the 2-yard thing with his drop. But even that admission, played on national television, never quite made its way to members of the rules committee.
It wasn't until about 10 p.m. Friday that Fred Ridley, chairman of the competition committee, was made aware of Woods' post-round quote. And that was only after broadcast partner CBS made inquiries. And Woods didn't know something might be wrong until he checked his cell phone Saturday morning and saw a text from his agent, Mark Steinberg. It read: "Give me a shout." When he did, Steinberg told him, ominously, "Fred wants to talk to you."
So the rules committee screwed up, too, worse than Woods did. On Saturday, given the choice between describing the committee's initial decision as "a mistake" or "a review," Ridley chose the word review.
In review, it was a mistake. On Saturday, the committee tried to rectify the mistake in the only way it could, which was to impose a 2-shot penalty on Woods for playing the ball from the wrong place after the bad drop. In other words, a medium-security prison instead of golf's death row.
A 2-stroke penalty is no small thing. But it isn't a forced DQ. Woods still has a chance of winning the Masters -- as he should have after this series of almost comical mistakes.
Ridley and the rules committee aren't a bunch of boofs. They meant well. Woods isn't a golf cheater. He thought he was doing the right thing. But combined, the committee and Woods created a controversy that will be remembered here for a long time -- especially if he goes on to win.
He left Augusta National on Friday night at 3-under par. Not long after, he arrived early Saturday morning at 1-under, thanks to that penalty. Disqualification, said Ridley, "was not even on the table."
That's because the committee took a DQ out of play the nanosecond it ruled Friday that Woods had done no wrong. They couldn't take a mulligan Saturday.
"Under the rules of golf, I can play," said Woods.
So he did, and shot a 2-under-par 70, putting him 4 strokes out of the lead shared by Brandt Snedeker and Angel Cabrera. Woods would have been 2 strokes behind the leaders without the penalty -- not that he was complaining. Asked if it was a fair punishment, Woods said, "Absolutely. I made a mistake."
Anybody who thinks Augusta National cut Woods a break because he's Woods, well, you've been spending too much time on grassy knolls. This place did without corporate sponsorship on its telecasts for two years. It's not going to care if Woods is in the field.
"[If] this had been John Smith from wherever, then he would have gotten the same ruling because, again, it is the right ruling under these circumstances," said Ridley.
It was the right ruling after a wrong initial decision by the rules committee.
"There's not a day that goes by," said Ridley, "that there are not some things I wish I would have done differently."
Friday, for instance.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Golf's governing bodies came out in support of the controversial ruling given to Tiger Woods at the Masters that kept the golfer from being disqualified but said they would review the matter further to see whether any adjustments to the game's rules or decisions are needed.
Both the United States Golf Association and R&A said they have received numerous inquiries about the situation and hoped their interpretation would provide guidance.
Woods failed to add penalty strokes to his scorecard following an improper drop during the second round on April 12 -- a violation that did not come to light until after he signed his card. Typically that would result in disqualification, but the Masters rules committee waived the disqualification and assessed the 2-stroke penalty under rarely used Rule 33-7.
With the penalty, Woods entered the third round 5 strokes out of the lead and eventually finished tied for fourth, 4 strokes out of a playoff won by Adam Scott.
"This ruling was based on an exceptional set of facts, as required by Rule 33-7, and should not be viewed as a general precedent for relaxing a player's obligation under the Rules to return a correct scorecard,'' the statement said.
The USGA and R&A went through the entire situation point by point in a statement that covered three pages.
It noted that the Masters rules committee received word from a spectator watching the telecast that Woods may have taken an improper drop. According to Fred Ridley, chairman of the Masters competition committee, he reviewed video of the drop while Woods played the final hole and determined that no violation occurred.
This, in essence, is where the Masters said it made a mistake and Woods should not have suffered a disqualification because of it; had officials discussed it with Woods, he reasonably could have been expected to add 2 strokes to his score before signing his card.
On Wednesday, Sports Illustrated identified the man who made the telephone call as David Eger, a Champions Tour player as well as as a former USGA and PGA Tour rules official. According to the story, posted on Golf.com, Eger did not see Woods' shot live, but instead rewound a tape at his  Florida home and, thinking he had seen a violation, called his friend Mickey Bradley, a veteran PGA Tour rules official who was working The Masters. Bradley forwarded a text from Eger to Ridley, who did not talk to Woods until the next day.
From the USGA/R&A statement:
"The fact that Woods, when he returned his score card, was not aware that he had incurred a two-stroke penalty on the 15th hole was not a basis to waive disqualification under Rule 33-7. Moreover, contrary to what some have suggested, the decision of the Committee to waive the disqualification penalty for Woods was not and could not have been based on Decision 33-7/4.5, a 2011 Decision that permits waiver of disqualification where 'the competitor could not reasonably have known or discovered the facts resulting in his breach of the Rules.' That extremely narrow exception, which relates generally to use of high-definition or slow-motion video to identify facts not reasonably visible to the naked eye, was not applicable here and had no bearing on the Committee's decision. Woods was aware of the only relevant fact: the location of the spot from which he last played his ball. His two-stroke penalty resulted from an erroneous application of the Rules, which he was responsible for knowing and applying correctly. Viewing the incident solely from the standpoint of Woods' actions, there was no basis to waive the penalty of disqualification under Rule 6-6d.
"However, the Masters Tournament Committee did not base its exercise of discretion under Rule 33-7 on any circumstances specific to Woods' knowledge, but rather on the consequences of the Committee's own actions. Before Woods had returned his score card for the second round, the Committee had received an inquiry from a television viewer questioning whether Woods, in taking relief under Rule 26-1a at the 15th hole, had dropped his ball sufficiently close to the spot from which he had played his original ball. The Committee promptly reviewed an available video and determined that Woods had dropped and played correctly under Rule 26-1a and therefore had not incurred a penalty. The Committee did not talk with Woods before making this ruling or inform him of the ruling. Woods therefore signed and returned his score card without knowledge of the Committee's ruling or the questions about his drop on the 15th hole. The following morning, after additional questions had been raised about the incident in a television interview, the Committee discussed the incident with Woods, reviewed the video with him and reversed its decision, ruling that Woods had dropped in and played from a wrong place.
"In deciding to waive the disqualification penalty, the Committee recognized that had it talked to Woods -- before he returned his score card -- about his drop on the 15th hole and about the Committee's ruling, the Committee likely would have corrected that ruling and concluded that Woods had dropped in and played from a wrong place. In that case, he would have returned a correct score of 8 for the 15th hole and the issue of disqualification would not have arisen.
"The Decisions on the Rules of Golf authorize a Committee to correct an incorrect decision before the competition has closed, and they establish that where a Committee incorrectly advises a competitor, before he returns his score card, that he has incurred no penalty, and then subsequently corrects its mistake, it is appropriate for the Committee to waive the disqualification penalty.''
The Masters and Augusta National did not immediately have any comment on the USGA/R&A statement, which concluded that the two organizations have been studying the rules in recent years as they pertain to scorecards and disqualification.
"As part of this ongoing assessment, and in keeping with this regular practice, the Rules of Golf Committees of the USGA and The R&A will review the exceptional situation that occurred at the 2013 Masters Tournament, assess the potential implications for other types of situations, and determine whether any adjustment to the Rules and/or the Decisions is appropriate,'' the statement said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AUGUSTA, Ga. -- The last time Patrick Reed barreled into the hometown of the Masters and created a new-sheriff-in-Dodge kind of stir, the welcoming committee was not so welcoming. In the weeks after his arrival nearly five years ago, his teammates at Augusta State could hardly stand him, and his coach could not fathom a day when this transfer from the University of Georgia would be worth the trouble he was causing, times 10.
Josh Gregory suspended Reed for the first two events of the 2009-10 season for violations of team rules he'd prefer to remain unspecified. The Georgia coach, Chris Haack, had warned his Augusta State counterpart that Reed was something of a wild colt that needed to be tamed, this after a series of issues -- including an arrest for underage drinking and possession of a fake ID -- made Reed a one-and-done Bulldog following a few tournaments in the fall.
"Chris was very candid," said Gregory, now the coach at SMU. "He told me, 'You're going to have your hands full. Patrick can really play, but he needs constant monitoring.'"
In his mind, Gregory had to take the gamble. Haack already had won two national titles at Georgia, and he had the requisite talent in his program (in future PGA Tour winners Harris English and Russell Henley) to seriously challenge for a third. He didn't need Reed, and Gregory did. The Augusta State coach needed one of the nation's best amateurs to transform his Division I program at a Division II commuter school into something the guardians of college golf would talk about forever.
But first, Gregory had to assure Reed he would never realize his lifelong dream of playing next door in the Masters unless he grew up, and grew up fast. The former All-American junior golfer from San Antonio and state high school champion from Baton Rouge wore out Georgia with his high-maintenance act, and he was on the verge of going 0-for-2 at Augusta State.
Long before he announced to the planet last month that he is among its top five golfers, inspiring a scaled-down version of the storm Richard Sherman kicked up after the NFC Championship Game, Reed was known for projecting a vibe of superiority and for doing too much talking for his own good. "He shot his mouth off early on when he shouldn't have," said Henrik Norlander, Reed's teammate at Augusta State.
"All I asked him to do was keep his mouth shut and play golf and let his golf clubs do the talking for him," Gregory said. "It was the only way for him to earn the respect of his teammates.
"Patrick was on his final strike, and he knew that. If he didn't shape up, he couldn't go anywhere else. Even if he made the tour at that point, maturity-wise he would've gotten eaten up. I told him he was never going to make it if he didn't get things under control."
Yes, Patrick Reed eventually got things under control. He showed up at Augusta National on Monday saying he'd wear red again in the final round in honor of his idol, Tiger Woods, whose absence here isn't the only reason the 23-year-old Reed might win the first major in which he's ever competed. His victory at Doral in the WGC-Cadillac Championship was his third in seven months, notarizing his staggering belief in himself (think Ian Poulter's ego on steroids) and encouraging him to see contention on Sunday's back nine as a realistic endgame.
Can this trash-talker with the young Tiger mentality and the young Jack Nicklaus body actually win the Masters on his first try? Win, lose or withdraw, this much is already clear:
What a long, strange, turbulent trip to Augusta National it's been.
Patrick's first gift after he was born was a plastic set of golf clubs waiting for him on the kitchen table, but his father, Bill, didn't have designs on the PGA Tour. A manager in the health care industry, Bill said he saw how sales reps were paired with executives during corporate outings, and figured he'd start working early on his son's business career-to-be.
When Reed was 9, Peter Murphy, a coach under Hank Haney, started working with him on Haney's ranch in McKinney, Tex., and he never felt he was dealing with some uncoachable phenom. From day one, all the teacher saw was a respectful student, one who was kind to Murphy's younger son and who had never met a shot under pressure he was afraid to try.
"Patrick never worried about finishing second or third if it meant blowing up on the last hole," Murphy said. "He tried to win at all costs."
Reed would stay at Murphy's place in Dallas on weekends, hit hundreds upon hundreds of practice balls over nine hours, eat dinner, putt on the backyard green under the lights and then rise early the next morning to do it all over again.
Reed worked with Murphy at the ranch at the same time Woods was tweaking his swing with Haney. "Patrick took a lot away from Tiger's demeanor, and his intimidation, the way Tiger had an air about him," Murphy said. "Patrick tried to portray a little of that when playing himself. He wanted to show people that he wouldn't back down."
The kid took on every dog-leg in sight, and over time Reed became a dominant player locally, regionally, even nationally, taking his game places his family never imagined.
Patrick kept winning tournaments despite "playing up" against older boys, and when his family moved to Louisiana, he landed at University Lab High School in Baton Rouge. "He was kind of the talk of the school for sure," said one of his University teammates, Craig Chandler.
"He'd competed all over the country, and everyone was saying this is the guy who will help us win a state championship. He was almost kind of a mercenary, a ringer for our team. He was fiercely competitive and always so sure of himself on and off the course, and very unapologetic about it, too. There were times I was taken aback by it."
Another University teammate, Darren Bahnsen, was taken aback by Reed's fearless approach to an impossibly cruel game. The first time they played together, Bahnsen watched Reed cut a 300-yard drive around the corner of a par 4 that stopped seven feet from the hole before he sank the eagle putt.
"If you ever challenged him at something, he answered it every single time," Bahnsen said. "In one practice round I hit a drive down the middle, about 275 yards, and felt good about it. Patrick said, 'Man, that's a good drive,' and then he got down on two knees and hit his ball 10 yards past me. From his knees."
Though he was two years older, Bahnsen drew confidence from Reed. In fact, he said the whole team did. Reed would help University win a state championship as a mere freshman in 2006, the same year he'd win the Junior British Open. The following season, he outdueled his older rival, future PGA Tour player Andrew Loupe, by blowing away the field with an opening 7-under 65 in winning the individual state title along with a second title for his team.
Even back then, the University coach, Paul Crespo, said Reed thought he would win every time he stepped on the first tee. "And gosh," Crespo said, "it seemed 99.9 percent of the time he did."
Reed's relentless focus on his career goals might've made him unique among the teenage golfers, but neither Chandler nor Bahnsen recalled any problems with Reed, or resentment of him. "Patrick was the nicest kid in the world," Crespo said. "I'm not just saying that. I've got nothing bad to say about the kid. He was polite, mature, and he ... got along with everybody."
This was the blue-chipper everyone wanted, the one who enrolled in online courses to graduate a year early after a move to Augusta, where his father had taken a new job. The Georgia Bulldogs won the recruiting war, like they'd won so many others. But the signing of Patrick Reed would prove to be a Pyrrhic victory.
At 2:33 a.m. on Nov. 8, 2008, University of Georgia police officer Jason Vogt was summoned to the East Campus Village by housing security to meet with a freshman that the officer would describe as "intoxicated." In his incident report, Vogt said he could smell alcohol on Reed's breath. "His speech was slurred and he was unsteady on his feet," the officer wrote, before stating the student presented him with a driver's license that appeared to be altered and showed a false date of birth.
Vogt arrested Reed for underage possession of alcohol and possession of a fraudulent ID. According to the Athens-Clarke County Superior Court case docket, Reed pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor and was put on probation, fined and sentenced to 60 hours of community service before he was discharged as a first offender.
In and of itself, the arrest didn't spell doom for Reed at Georgia. (How many underage college kids across America drink with the help of a bogus ID?) But the case spoke to the disconnect between a seemingly immature Reed and his obligations as a representative of a highly successful athletics program.
"I went out, had a drink, got arrested, but I learned a lot from it," Reed told ESPN.com on Monday. "It was a blessing in disguise. I grew as a person, and it taught me to stay focused on my goals to be successful and take me where I am today."
Haack didn't want to lose Reed if he could help it. He remembered his prize recruit as a gifted ball striker who won over the Bulldogs' assistant, Ryan Hybl, while playing in a tournament in Colorado. "I'll never forget Ryan calling me and going, 'This guy hits it close all day long but never makes anything," Haack said. "If he ever figures out the putter, he's going to be dangerous.'"
But ultimately, Reed made it clear he couldn't figure out what was required of him to remain at Georgia. Though Reed's father, Bill, confirmed the arrest "was one of the main reasons why Patrick left Georgia," Haack wouldn't elaborate on additional issues he had with his player.
"It wasn't a good fit for him here," the coach said. "He needed a change of scenery, and it worked out best for the both of us."
A number of Reed's teammates at Georgia either didn't return messages seeking comment or, when contacted, declined to speak publicly about the circumstances surrounding his transfer. English was one former Bulldog willing to talk about Reed's prodigious talent.
"I always knew he was a heck of a player," English said. "I played with him when I was 13, 14, 15. He was a world-beater growing up. When he came to Georgia, we were really excited because he was one of the best players in the country. Unfortunately things didn't work out, because we really could have used him on our team."
That would never be more apparent than it was two years later, when English came face-to-face with Reed with nothing less than an NCAA championship on the line.
Gregory had to beat out Florida and Wake Forest in the free-agent chase for the suddenly available Patrick Reed, and his pitch was simple: The big school experience didn't work for you. Time to give the small school back home a shot.
Gregory had actually played in the same field with the teenage Reed at the Terra Cotta Invitational, and he knew this was a prospect out of Augusta State's league. From 150 yards and in, Gregory thought Reed was as good a player as he'd ever seen.
"We could've won 10 national championships in a row," Gregory said, "and we're not getting that type of kid."
But on the rebound after Georgia, Gregory said, "Patrick needed a mentor figure around him all the time. He needed structure. He needed discipline. He needed someone to take care of him, quite honestly."
The tough love came early in the form of that suspension. One source close to the situation said players voted among themselves to have Reed removed from the team. "I don't think we had a vote," said Norlander, the No. 2 player behind Reed at Augusta State, now known as Georgia Regents University. "We had talked of having a vote."
Either way, Reed made the cut. "Golf is an individual sport until you get to college, and then it's a team sport," he said. "I was focused on me and my golf game and that wasn't helping the team. After sitting down with Josh, it helped me realize that it's not all me, me, me."
Reed made a renewed effort to connect with his teammates. "The first few months he was there, it was bad," Norlander recalled. "It got better."
Funny how it worked out, too. Gregory had teams with ideal chemistry, players who got along across the board, and they never won the big one. And yet there he stood in 2011, preparing his Jaguars to do something no team had done in more than a quarter-century -- repeat as national champs -- while coaching a superstar and a supporting cast that still hated losing to him in practice rounds.
Reed led the Jaguars to the 2010 title by beating Peter Uihlein and the powerhouse Oklahoma State Cowboys, and Reed dusted Uihlein again in the 2011 semis to reach the final against ... the Georgia Bulldogs. Gregory didn't have to worry about Reed's confidence entering this duel with the program that had cut him loose.
"My goal is to get my players to think they are twice as good as they really are," the coach said. "Patrick already thought he was twice as good as he really was."
Haack's worst nightmare would come to be. Reed would close out English, one of the nicest, most respectful players Haack had ever coached, after English hit into the water on the 17th hole, giving Augusta State a 3-2 victory and the first two-peat since the University of Houston in 1985.
One person close to the Georgia program called the Reed-over-English result "the death of karma." If some on the Augusta State side privately agreed, the Jaguars understood they never would've made history had Reed never walked into their lives.
"He was unstoppable when he was on," Norlander said, "and he did eventually realize that just because you shoot a great score doesn't mean you're a great guy ... He realized there was more to life than golf."
"Did his teammates ever love him? Probably not," Gregory said. "But slowly Patrick earned their respect back. And they knew there would've been no national championships without him."
Assuming he makes the Masters cut, Patrick Reed will give the viewing audience at least one red shirt to behold on Sunday.
"Yes, sir," he said. "Always. It's worked for Mr. Woods, and it's working for me."
Last August, at Wyndham, Reed claimed his first PGA Tour victory by beating Jordan Spieth in a playoff on a positively absurd baseball swing from under a tree and out of a tangle of grass, twigs and mulch. Reed shot three consecutive 63s on three different courses to win the Humana Challenge in January. He wore his red-and-black ensemble to beat the living legend in red and black, Woods, and the rest of a loaded lineup at Doral last month.
Of course, a sport overrun by say-nothing automatons went to Defcon 1 on Twitter and elsewhere after Reed said what he said about being among the world's five best players, naming names of his conquests along the way. It was Reed being Reed, and when asked in his pre-tournament news conferences about his chances to win the Masters, he wasn't backing down.
"I'm very confident," he said. "I try to treat it like it's just another event."
Just another event? The one he'd called "a dream come true" to play in?
Not quite. Reed just completed a 10-day minicamp with his coach, Kevin Kirk, at the Woodlands in Houston to prepare for the Masters, working on shaping the ball right-to-left off the tees, hitting off tight lies around the greens and controlling trajectory and spin on approach shots.
Before his practice rounds over the weekend, Reed had only played Augusta National three times, and in cold, wet conditions. Kirk likes his man's chances at Augusta anyway, and knows Reed won't cower under the magnitude of the stakes.
"He's not afraid to crash and burn," Kirk said.
Perhaps a few opponents wouldn't mind seeing a meltdown at Amen Corner, a humbling of Reed on the biggest stage in golf. If so, the brash newbie isn't about to sweat it.
Reed is quite pleased with where he is and what he's become. He said his college experiences taught him how to put a team's interests ahead of his own (at least some of the time), and inspired him to call his pregnant wife (and former caddie) Justine, brother-in-law (and current caddie) Kessler Karain, coach Kirk, and his agent (Kevin Canning of Legacy) "Team Reed."
The captain of that team, Reed himself, maintained that he does have friends on the tour, and that he does prefer to be liked rather than loathed by his peers. But he also understands why arguably the three greatest players of all time --  Nicklaus, Woods, and Ben Hogan -- were not exactly loved by those they vanquished.
"It's not a popularity contest out there," Reed said.
He's far more interested in winning something else. Can he pull it off in his first major? Who knows?
His high school teammate, Chandler, made a safer Masters prediction.
"When he arrives, you'll know he's there," Chandler said.
"Patrick Reed's never been the kind of player who's going to go anywhere quietly."
ESPN.com's Bob Harig contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The driving range at a major championship can feel a lot like a crowded subway platform. Swing coaches, sponsors, flacks, caddies, wives, trainers, writers, camera crews and agents all jostle for space, and fans murmur just beyond the ropes, their phones out, their eyes wide. A buzz of anticipation lingers in the air. It's what happens when golfers are playing not just for money, but for legacy, for a piece of the permanent record. This might be the best environment in which to stand, just for a few moments, and consider the awe-inspiring enigma that is Rory McIlroy.
As fascinating at it is to watch McIlroy hit golf balls on television, it is all the more mesmerizing to watch him hit balls in person, in an effortless rhythm. Television, even with HD cameras so sharp you can make out individual blades of grass from your couch, can only begin to do it justice. It's akin to describing how a five-star meal tastes by showing someone a picture of a steak on your phone.
You need to see it, smell it, hear it and breathe it in to truly appreciate how rare it is. The efficiency of his motion, the power generated by the devastating synergy of his arms, legs and hip turn, is unlike anything golf has ever seen, in part because McIlroy, at only 26 years old, is tiny by the typical standard of power athletes. He is 5-foot-10 and hovers around 160 pounds, but he is as lean as a swimmer.
He has no entourage, no cloud of fools begging for his attention. His coach, Michael Bannon, and his caddie, JP Fitzgerald, stand five feet away, watching mostly in silence. Small talk is kept to a minimum. Otherwise affable, McIlroy is deadly serious in these moments.
Occasionally, he'll take the crucifix he wears around his neck, put it between his teeth for a moment, push his right sleeve up like a matador, then hammer another shot toward a distant flag. He'll hold his swing's finish for the entire flight of the ball, posing like a statue. Young players, especially the handful of amateurs at each major, often pause when they walk past just to watch him practice, their eyes wide with wonder. It's as though they cannot believe he's playing the same sport.
McIlroy was supposed to own 2015. It was supposed to be the year we no longer debated whether he was the best player of his generation, and instead was our chance to watch McIlroy become one of greatest golfers in history. At one point in 2014, he won three straight tournaments -- the Open, the WGC Bridgestone Invitational and the PGA Championship -- and in 11 of his 12 rounds during that stretch, he posted a score of 69 or better.
If he won the Masters -- a title that had eluded him in previous years, but seemed tailored to his skill set of booming drives and towering iron shots -- he'd become just the sixth man in history to capture the career Grand Slam. The way he belted balls with his driver, and the way he marched down the fairway, intimidating competitors with his steely, head-bobbing silence, felt like he was delivering a message: My era of dominance is just beginning.
What actually happened was more interesting. McIlroy won no majors, lost his No. 1 ranking to Jordan Spieth and missed the Open with an ankle injury he suffered while playing soccer. He looked exhausted at times, carrying the weight of these expectations. It was a reminder that golf might be the hardest sport on earth to dominate, and that Tiger Woods spoiled us for more than a decade by making a consistent level of brilliance seem almost routine. If we didn't understand it then, we know it now: Rory McIlroy is not Tiger Woods. Not even close.
We can and should still appreciate McIlroy for what he is. It's possible -- likely, even -- McIlroy will be happier and healthier in the long run specifically because he and Woods are such different people. But the fact that they had similarly breathtaking ball flights in their primes does not mean they'll have similar careers.
On the eve of 2016's first major, it's worth looking back at what unfolded over the past 12 months in an attempt to unpack the most interesting questions of McIlroy's career: What kind of player does he want to be? What kind of life does he want?
He seems, at times, like he's still figuring out the answer.
One year ago, in anticipation of McIlroy's attempt to win a career Grand Slam, Nike released an ad depicting a wide-eyed toddler sitting cross-legged in front of his television. On the screen, a young Tiger Woods rolls in a putt and fist-pumps with celebratory fury on his way to winning his first of three U.S. Amateur titles. In response, the young boy picks up a plastic club and lashes at a plastic golf ball, sending it caroming across his living room. Soft piano music, "Nuvole Bianche" by Ludovico Einaudi, begins to play, and as the young boy's arms and hips coil and then snap in tandem like the crack of a whip, it becomes clear what we are seeing. The boy is supposed to be McIlroy. The commercial's message is obvious: Even as young as 3, genius comes at least in part from inspiration.
The commercial, directed by Steve Rogers for Wieden+Kennedy, unfolds like a documentary. It follows Rory as he studies Woods' career over the next two decades. Tiger, with steely nerves and steady hands, makes big putts under pressure, and so Rory practices similar putts in the twilight of his backyard. Tiger wins the Masters, and so the young boy mounts a poster of his idol on the wall. Tiger hits a tee shot in a tournament with rain pouring off his hat, and so a shivering teenage Rory hits irons at the driving range, late into the night, even on days when he is soaked to the bone.
It culminates with Woods and McIlroy teeing off together in a professional tournament, Woods looking weathered but wise, his greatest triumphs come and gone, McIlroy looking spry and muscled, his best moments ahead, just beyond the horizon. Each man rips his drive into the distance, Tiger first, then Rory, and as they begin their walk up the lush fairway, Tiger passes a metaphoric torch in the form of a compliment: "Good shot there, man." The ad, tightly filmed in just two minutes, is one of those rare instances in which commerce morphs, briefly, into art.
A look at the tee times for Round 2 of the 80th Masters Tournament at Augusta National.
Two-time Masters champion Bubba Watson might be hard to love, but maybe he deserves our empathy.
As another Masters gets set to tee off, the Jack Nicklaus-Tiger Woods debate for golf's greatest player brings valid arguments on both sides. The winner, even if he won't admit it, is clear.
There is an aspect of the commercial, however, that reveals more than anyone likely intended. It cuts off just as McIlroy and Woods are walking toward their second shots, and the message is clear: The small boy from a small country with an explosive swing dreamed big, worked hard and became a man. Woods is OK passing the torch to his rightful heir, gracefully acknowledging, for the first time, we are in the twilight of his golfing life. But we also have to understand that Woods' heir wouldn't be possible without Woods.
By cutting to black in that moment, just as McIlroy has metaphorically arrived, it obscures arguably the most compelling part of the journey. We see where inspiration can take you, but don't have to pause and ponder how heavy the burden is to bear once you arrive.
The burden, as it turns out, was enormous. You could see it weighing on McIlroy last year, no matter how often he tried to deflect it. Every practice session, every interview, every commercial shoot, every workout, it was obvious the Masters was weighing on his mind. Golf, which for years had been trapped in purgatory, waiting for Woods to find his form, was desperate to capitalize on McIlroy's rise.
The pre-Masters media blitz was exhausting. Hints of honesty crept into his answers. He told an England newspaper reporter he trusted that he'd come to realize he did not love golf the same way he did when he was a kid. He even went so far as to declare he had no intention of playing golf into his 40s. He was already imagining the day he could walk away.
"When I was a kid, if I spent a day away from the game, I couldn't wait to get back," McIlroy told The Telegraph. "Now I can't wait for a week off. When I was a kid, I never, ever wanted to get away from it."
Tiger's career had been defined by his pursuit of Jack Nicklaus' record of 18 majors, but McIlroy refused to let anyone think he was chasing a similar benchmark. He insisted that record meant nothing to him.
"I don't have a target," he said. "I'm just looking for my fifth. Hopefully when I get my fifth, I'll look for my sixth. At the end of my career, I'll add it up and see where it leaves me, and that's the way I'm going to approach it."
He tried to lighten the mood by having his friend, pop star Niall Horan of One Direction, caddie for him in the Par-3 contest. But by the time his first-round tee time finally arrived, McIlroy looked mentally spent, his body language dragging.
The first 27 holes of the tournament, McIlroy played tepid, tentative golf and looked like he was sleepwalking through some of his holes. He shot a first-round 71, and his score ballooned to 3 over par on the front nine on Friday. At the same time, Spieth was lapping the Masters field, opening with rounds of 64 and 66. By the time McIlroy finally snapped out of his pre-tournament fog, he glanced at a scoreboard to see Spieth was done with his Friday round and, at that point, 12 shots ahead. McIlroy's bid for history was essentially over. "I said right to his face, 'It's not fun when the second question you're asked is about Jordan, is it?'" Nick Faldo said. "It had to have lit a fire in him."
A furious charge -- he played the final 45 holes in 15 under par -- looked better on paper than in reality, vaulting McIlroy into fourth. But Spieth, by tying Woods for the lowest score in tournament history and winning his first major at age 21, had clearly positioned himself as a credible obstacle to McIlroy's dominance. A legitimate rivalry was born, even as Spieth tried to downplay it.
"Right now, I don't see myself there," Spieth said. "There is a lot of hard work left to get there. It's certainly a huge goal of mine to make it interesting with him."
For the most part, people inside the golf world didn't see Spieth's ascension as a legitimate threat to the true hierarchy of the game. McIlroy, like Woods in his prime, frequently hits shots that make you contemplate the limits of what's possible with a golf ball. Spieth, despite his tactical brilliance and the fact that he wields a putter the way Monet wielded a paintbrush, doesn't inspire quite the same awe.
"Rory is still the best player on Earth, by about a mile, no matter what Jordan does," says one former European Tour member who has known McIlroy since he was a teenager. "What Jordan has done is nice, but in terms of the ability to hit pure shots, it's not f---ing close."
McIlroy would never state it in such blunt terms. He can be ruthless on the course, but he is polite and genial outside competition, well liked among his peers on tour. He was gracious and complimentary toward Spieth throughout the season. But there were times when he seemed almost bemused at the suggestion the 22-year-old Texan (or anyone else in the world) was closing in on him.
After the disappointment at the Masters, McIlroy won the next tournament he entered, the WGC Cadillac Match Play, thumping Gary Woodland in the final for his 10th PGA Tour victory. He showed up at the Players Championship, and when paired with Spieth for the first two rounds, did his best to avoid rolling his eyes when peppered with questions about his budding rival.
"Last year it was Rickie [Fowler], this year it's Jordan," McIlroy said. "There have been four or five rivalries over the past year. It doesn't really do anything for me."
At the Wells Fargo Championship in May, McIlroy seemed interested in reminding everyone just how easily he can annihilate a golf course when he's focused and feeling comfortable. He fired a third-round 61, blitzed the field and cruised to a 7-stroke victory. Afterward, he confessed that the burden of chasing the career Grand Slam had unsettled him early in the season.
"I'm not going to lie," McIlroy said. "There was a lot of expectation going into Augusta, a lot of hype, a lot of expectation that I put on myself. I guess a little bit of weight has been lifted off the shoulders and freed me up not to think about it and just go on and play the rest of the season."
The weeks that followed, however, were a window into the paradox that is McIlroy's game: He missed the cut at the BMW PGA Championship at Wentworth, then missed the cut at the Irish Open, a tournament hosted by his foundation. For all his physical skills, he is not a grinder. He cannot salvage sloppy rounds like Woods, who once made 142 consecutive cuts.
"I think that's just the way I'm going to be," McIlroy said. "I'd rather in a six-tournament period have three wins and three missed cuts than six top-10s. Volatility in golf is actually a good thing. If your good weeks are really good, it far outweighs the bad weeks."
There are times when McIlroy seems to long for the life that he had before he was famous, when he could spend an entire day not worrying about a camera, or an intrusive question from a stranger. When he was engaged to tennis player Caroline Wozniacki, the two frequently appeared in public and shared snippets of their romance on social media. For better or worse, for a long time, he let the world see glimpses of his personal life in ways Woods always resisted.
It felt, at times, like a direct rebellion against the pressure of being studied so closely, of feeling like a caged lion in a zoo exhibit. They seemed to revel in the attention. But something changed in McIlroy after he abruptly ended their engagement, and it wasn't just the criticism he endured for ending their relationship in a three-minute phone call. He seems to long for a return to a more private existence.
The week before the U.S. Open at Chambers Bay, he spent three days walking around London on a mini-vacation. He rode to the top of the London Eye -- a giant Ferris wheel on the River Thames that let's you see as far as Windsor Castle on a clear day -- and tried to feel like a tourist with his new girlfriend, Erica Stoll, an employee with the PGA of America. McIlroy pulled his hat down low, and for the first time in a long time, he faded into the crowd.
Great golfers are always more interesting once they find their true foil. Bobby Jones needed Walter Hagen. Arnold Palmer needed Jack Nicklaus. Jack Nicklaus needed Tom Watson. Greg Norman needed Nick Faldo.
Tiger was a notable exception; he was magical and Shakespearean all on his own, and his real rivals were history and hubris. That proved to be true of McIlroy as well. At the U.S. Open, McIlroy entered a betting favorite, and he didn't shy away from a reporter wondering whether he, like LeBron James, saw himself as the best player on Earth.
"I think when LeBron talks about that, that's not confidence, that's a fact," McIlroy said. "If you look at the numbers, you can really see he is the best player in the world. And I guess for me, I feel the same way when I look at the world rankings and I see my name up at the top. If you look back at the last four or five years, I guess I've won more majors than anyone else in that time period. So do I feel like the best player in the world? Yes."
He also asserted that alpha mentality in subtle ways. When he was leaving the driving range early in the week, he paused to sign autographs for 15 minutes. A teenage boy politely thrust a picture of McIlroy and Spieth together at the Masters in front of him several times. McIlroy scribbled on dozens of pictures of his own likeness, wrote his name on hats, gloves and balls for eager kids in the hot Tacoma sunshine. But every time he saw the picture of him and Spieth, he deftly and deliberately moved down the rope line. He had no interest in elevating the Masters champ to his level.
Over the course of four days at the U.S. Open, on a course as dry as wrinkled sandpaper, McIlroy hit the ball in places Spieth couldn't dream of reaching. The majority of his drives and iron shots were stunning. By the end of the week, he would declare it the best he'd ever hit the ball in a major championship over four rounds, a stunning admission from someone who had once won a major by 8 shots.
But on greens that resembled rotting cauliflower, McIlroy couldn't coax the ball into the hole the way Spieth was doing it repeatedly. He was so frustrated, he declined to stop by the media center to speak to reporters, something Woods almost never did during his reign as the No. 1 player. By Saturday afternoon, McIlroy was scowling at scoreboards, mumbling curse words to himself as he walked to the next tee, whipping his putter in anger toward his bag after another birdie putt wiggled by the hole and he had to tap in for par.
"You start to miss a couple, you start to get a little tentative," he said. "You start to doubt yourself. Once I missed a couple, it got into my head and couldn't really get out of it."
When he walked off the 18th green, 8 shots behind Spieth going into the final round, he turned to Fitzgerald, his stoic, silent caddie, and grumbled what seemed like a window into his state of mind, referencing his U.S. Open win in 2011: "Thank God I've already got one of these."
It felt, going into the final round, like a pointless exercise. He began Sunday 8 shots behind Spieth, Dustin Johnson, Branden Grace and Jason Day, on a course that wasn't surrendering birdies. But gone was his icy demeanor. He cracked jokes with Fitzgerald, traded small talk with his playing partner, John Senden, and nodded and waved to fans pleading for his attention. On virtually every hole, someone in the gallery (often with a beer in hand) bellowed out a line from "Game of Thrones," declaring him "The King of the North!" He seemed, for the first time all week, relaxed.
Then something unlikely unfolded. His putts started falling. He birdied the second hole, then the seventh and eighth. He was still smashing the ball a mile off the tee, but now he was trickling in putts.
The growing roar from his gallery could be heard from across the course as he crept up the leaderboard. He began walking with purpose, his head bouncing, his eyes narrowing. He birdied the 10th and 12th holes by stuffing his approach shots in close, and when he rolled in a winding, twisting 72-foot birdie on the 13th hole for his sixth birdie of the day, the explosion of sound from the crowd was unlike anything Chambers Bay had heard all week.
Fans were abandoning the leaders and sprinting half a mile up the hill to join McIlroy's gallery. The idea that he might shoot 62 -- the lowest score ever in a major -- seemed like a real possibility. Maybe an inevitability.
But whatever magic McIlroy briefly bottled that day evaporated more quickly than it had arrived. He hit a putt on 14 that flirted with the hole but didn't fall, and it was as if the spell was broken. His shoulders slumped, he hung his head, he walked to the next tee muttering to himself.
He bogeyed two of the last four holes, his disinterest growing with every swing, and finished in ninth place. He walked in silence to the players lounge holding hands with Stoll, his father and his swing coach trailing slightly behind. The only sound was the crunch of the gravel beneath his spikes. He left the course right around the time Spieth birdied the 72nd hole to win his second straight major.
We tell ourselves often that golfers can defy the normal aging process of an athlete. We believe they'll win tournaments -- even win majors -- deep into their 40s. It's the one sport in which, just because you're approaching the halfway point of your life, it doesn't have to be the end of your competitive life. This is why we held on to the belief for so long that Woods would not only return from injury, but that he'd recapture the magic he displayed for a decade. It was inevitable.
For the most part, though, it's a lie.
Golf tends to break people as they get older, and this is especially true of the great ones, the men who carry the weight of the game on their shoulders. Bobby Jones retired at 28 because he hated the pressure of tournament golf. He'd stay up all night smoking and drinking whiskey to calm his nerves before a big match, and it made him miserable. In his 40s, Ben Hogan felt so paralyzed over the ball with a putter in his hand, he was embarrassed to play in front of other people and theorized that putting should be eliminated from the game entirely. Arnold Palmer never won another major after he turned 34 and was tormented by his inability to throttle back his aggressive nature. Woods, though his story isn't over yet, may never recover from numerous injuries and obsessive swing tinkering.
In most sports, our best athletes are undone by age because as their reflexes diminish, their muscle mass erodes. In golf, it's nerves that betray you. Even the great ones simply lose their nerve.
The one legend to escape that fate was Jack Nicklaus. He won his last major, his sixth Masters, and 18th overall, at age 46. He always attributed his longevity to the balance he struck between family, friendships and golf.
"He did not bring golf home," said Barbara Nicklaus, Jack's wife of 56 years. "And when he turned pro, he made it a point. He said, 'I will not be gone longer than two weeks at a time. Because I refuse to have my kids go away to college and say, gee, I wish I knew my dad.' And believe me, they knew their dad. He would fly cross-country for a football game or volleyball game, and our kids at that time thought that's what dads do. Now that they're married and have families of their own, they say, 'Wow, Dad really did support us.'"
Though Woods might have inspired McIlroy's career, it is Nicklaus' approach to life McIlroy has most tried to emulate. That's part of the reason he was playing soccer with friends two weeks before the Open when he ruptured a ligament in his ankle. He was trying to live some semblance of a normal life. Even though it cost him a chance to defend the Claret Jug, a chance to play the Open at the Old Course (where he shares the official course record), he insisted it would not alter the way he approaches his future.
"Not at all," McIlroy said, when asked if the injury would prompt him to give up soccer. "I'm not going to stop doing what I do. I enjoy that part of my life, I enjoy having that normality in my life, something that I've done since I was a kid, and I won't stop doing that."
Though he could not control what happened, he seemed determined to control the narrative of the injury, a strategy he could have easily learned from Woods. McIlroy -- not anyone in the media -- broke the story of his ankle injury when he posted a less-than-candid picture of himself on crutches, wearing a walking boot. McIlroy -- not anyone in the media -- broke the story that he was officially missing the Open with a photo of his feet propped up in front of the television, the Claret Jug artfully placed on the shelf at the bottom of the frame.
The discipline he and his management team showed was both calculating and impressive. They holed up in Portugal, turned down every interview request, and he intensified his rehab. Every few days, another Instagram post would appear, almost playful in nature. Rory standing on a mat, swinging a medicine ball; Rory hitting driver with a heavily taped ankle; Rory on a private jet, a string of emojis hinting at his return for the PGA Championship, the year's final major.
He didn't play particularly sharp golf at Whistling Straits. He insisted the ankle wasn't bothering him, but several times, he paused during his round when the attention was elsewhere to grimace and tug on the athletic tape around his foot. As he gradually fell out of contention, he seemed almost resigned to his fate. There would be no thundering charge the way there was at Chambers Bay. He passed the time between shots discussing the English Premier League with Fitzgerald as they strolled up the fairways.
During the third round, while waiting for the group ahead of them to clear the 13th fairway, McIlroy and playing partner Brooks Koepka engaged in a friendly debate on the tee over whether Woods -- who had missed his third straight cut at a major -- should enter the Wyndham Championship the following week. Woods' game had been in a state of disarray all season, and he looked like a ghost of his former self. If he decided not to play the Wyndham, his season would be over. He didn't have enough points to qualify for the FedExCup playoffs.
Koepka, a 25-year-old who hits the ball with booming ferocity, couldn't wrap his brain around why Woods was hesitating. "I mean, why wouldn't you play?" he asked. "Maybe he gets hot and wins, and suddenly his whole year feels different. You win once a year on the PGA Tour, that's a great year."
"Maybe," McIlroy said, looking out at Lake Michigan. "But his life has changed a lot in the last five years. You have to understand how important it is for him to spend time with his kids."
The tone of his voice suggested he understood Woods' internal dilemma better than he could even verbalize.
In the end, it felt like a lost season. McIlroy admitted as much. He put too much pressure on himself, got hung up on making history.
"Not that I was expecting to win, but there was just this expectation of [greatness]," McIlroy said. "Knowing what was at stake, what could happen, instead of just going out and playing and trying not to think about all that stuff. Going into next year, I'll still work as hard as ever in trying to get prepared and trying to get my shape in the best place possible to play those tournaments. But not work at it for the reason of 'I can make history here.'"
What does Rory McIlroy want?
To win a career Grand Slam? To dominate like Tiger did? To find balance in his life and have a family? To be left alone? To putt like Jordan Spieth? (He recently switched up his grip, going left hand low, just like Spieth does.)
Life's questions have multiplied with age. The ascension of Spieth and Jason Day has clearly lit a fire in him, and may benefit him in the long run, but he hasn't recaptured the magic of 2014. He's working harder than ever, getting out of bed at 5:30 a.m. to train and practice, (at least according to his new Nike commercial), but still figuring it out how to juggle it all. He got engaged to Stoll -- this time in private, unlike the Twitter announcement he made when he proposed to Wozniacki -- and though he insisted he was happier than ever, it didn't stop golf bloggers from asking whether the marriage might "derail" his career.
You can forgive him for occasionally reminiscing about the times in his life when things weren't so complicated. At the Tour Championship in September, he shared a story: There was a time, right after he turned pro, when what he wanted, more than anything, was an expensive watch. In 2007, shortly after he turned professional, he finished third in the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship as an 18-year-old. His prize money, at that point, was set up to be wired straight into his bank account back in Ireland. He tried not to think much about it. His parents had juggled multiple jobs throughout his childhood to support his golf dreams, and the fact that he was playing for more money, each week, than they made in a decade was still a bit surreal. But the week after the Dunhill Links check was deposited, he went to get cash out of the ATM for the week, and when he saw his balance -- around 220,000 British pounds, or $450,000 -- he almost couldn't believe it. Most of his friends were still scraping together money to go to college, and here he was with more money than he could fathom. He went shopping for the perfect watch that very moment. "It's something I'll remember for the rest of my life," McIlroy said.
A time would soon come when money would mean little. He's now worth over $400 million. He has an endorsement deal with Omega and can afford any watch he wants. When McIlroy finished the story, a reporter asked him whether he still had the watch, which seemed so special back when he had no idea what the future would bring.
"I'm not sure," McIlroy admitted. "A bit of an anticlimax to that story."
So much had happened since then. It made little sense to linger for very long in the warm memories of the past when he was still figuring out how to navigate the present.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AUGUSTA, Ga., -- If you've been paying close attention this week, you might have noticed something about Jordan Spieth that's a little different from normal. It's not a major departure from his everyday personality. It's subtler than that, but you can still sense it.
He's irritable.
Little stuff has been getting under his skin. A reporter's question. A few random gusts of wind. A rules official putting him on the clock for slow play. A miscommunication that led to him snapping at his caddie, Michael Greller, in the middle of a round.
Spieth has played the role of polite, genteel Texan for so long. To see another side of him this week has been interesting, and also somewhat revealing. Winning the Masters is always going to be one of the hardest feats to accomplish in golf, but winning the tournament when you're also carrying the burden of great expectations is considerably harder. There is a reason only three men (Jack Nicklaus, Nick Faldo, Tiger Woods) have won the Masters in consecutive years. Yet here Spieth is, on the cusp of becoming the fourth.
What we're witnessing isn't a personality change, but the next evolution of Spieth's career. The reason he's the most complete player in the world -- no matter what the rankings say -- is because he can contend in majors when he's mad, when he's relaxed, when the weather isn't great and when everyone is gunning for him. He doesn't need to catch every break, or have perfect timing, to climb the leaderboard and stay there. He can fill up his scorecard with birdies, and he can grind and make pars when all those around him are losing their heads. He can even shake off double bogeys, which he had to do twice on the back nine Saturday.
Spieth just keeps muttering to himself, clenching his jaw and finding ways to get the ball in the hole on greens that, especially this year, are playing like cement artfully dusted with green paint. At 3-under par, he leads Smylie Kaufman by a stroke and Bernhard Langer and Hideki Matsuyama by two.
If he hadn't limped home, bogeying 17 and double-bogeying 18, the members of Augusta National might already be asking Spieth if his measurements are the same as last year. As it stands, we've got ourselves a golf tournament. Spieth wasn't sure if the two wild drives he hit at the end of the round would be so easily forgotten.
"I think it will be tough personally. I mean honestly, I think it will be tough to put it behind. I think I will, but that wasn't a fun last couple holes to play from the position I was in. I'm not going to dodge the question by any means. It's not going to be fun tonight for a little while, and hopefully I just sleep it off and it's fine tomorrow. I imagine that will be the case."
Get the latest scores from Sunday's Round 4 of the Masters.
Although Jordan Spieth gave his pursuers a better chance to overcome him Sunday at the Masters, don't expect the defending champion to relinquish his green jacket in the final round.
Saturday at the Masters didn't get any easier, and the grades didn't get any better. Who shook off the blustery conditions to earn a decent grade? Michael Collins has the report card.
It wasn't always pretty, but none of it matters now. He is still in position to win his third major at age 22. Neither Nicklaus or Woods did that.
"I thought I putted the ball unbelievably well today," Spieth said. "I made a lot of putts from 4 to 8 feet on my second putts, after putting up ridges throughout the round, and I thought that was key to holding it together."
Spieth could certainly falter on Sunday, or get run down by someone who gets hot and has a career day. He hasn't been sharp with the driver all week, and he has been playing way too many shots off the pine straw. But chew on these statistics for a second: Spieth has now played 11 rounds in his career at the Masters. The lowest position he has ever held on the scoreboard at the end of the day is 12th, and that came after the first round he played in 2014. He has been alone atop the leaderboard for seven straight rounds. If he wins Sunday, he'll be the first man in golf history to win a major in consecutive years leading wire-to-wire both times.
"I played better than I scored today," Spieth said. "I'm in the lead after 54 holes. If you told me that at the beginning of the week, I'd be obviously very pleased. So it's mixed feelings right now."
He wasn't alone, expressing those mixed feelings. That alpha showdown between Spieth and Rory McIlroy that had everyone buzzing at the start of the day? It never materialized, and most of that fell on McIlroy. It was the first time in 80 rounds at a major that he failed to make a birdie. He frequently bombed the ball 40 yards past Spieth off the tee, but he still spent much of round with his shoulders slumped, staring down at his divots in exasperation. He slogged his way around the course and finished with a 77.
"To be honest with you, I would be feeling a lot worse about myself if I hadn't have just seen what Jordan did the last two holes," McIlroy said. "I sort of take a bit of heart from that, that I'm still in this golf tournament. Standing on 17 tee, I didn't feel I was."
It's clear Spieth's ability to play messy golf and still score well drives McIlroy a bit nutty at times. In a typical bit of candor, he admitted as much after the round. The two men -- who have won four of the past six majors -- have the potential to be such compelling rivals because their strengths and weaknesses present an interesting contrast. McIlroy can shrink a course with his driver and long irons, but Spieth can carve it up with his wedges and putter.
"I turned around after 15 and said 'How the hell is he 2-under par today?'" McIlroy said of Spieth. "But it's his most impressive asset. As much as it could be annoying to his competitors, it's very, very impressive. The guys out there playing that golf course, we're the ones that appreciate it the most. As much as it does dishearten you seeing those putts lip in, you have to take your hat off to him because he's such a grinder and such a battler."
McIlroy and Spieth aren't particularly close -- and really, why would we expect them to be when they're both vying for the same hardware? -- but they both understand what it's like to feel the burden of being two of the game's biggest stars in the post-Tiger Woods era. The year after he won two majors, McIlroy experienced his share of frustrations, and wasn't always happy trying to juggle his burgeoning fame and his new responsibilities. He predicted that Spieth would go through some of that as well.
"It will feel completely different for Jordan," McIlroy told the London Telegraph in December. "If you look at the stats at how those who have had a double-major season have performed the next year ... it's hard to back up. It just is. There's so much expectation, so much attention and focus. And I think it is more self-inflicted pressure really as your expectations are so high."
It seemed, during the first few months of 2016, as if McIlroy might be right. Spieth won his first event of the year at the Hyundai Tournament of Champions, but that incredible performance (he finished 30-under par) only raised expectations to unrealistic levels. Spieth admitted last month that he was still struggling with figuring out how to navigate the choppy waters of his new life.
"Things have changed," he said. "I still find myself struggling with what's the right thing to do. Oftentimes, I come off the course and I hit it poorly that day. And it's a frustrating feeling trying to look for answers, knowing you need to go work on it, and then you've got all the people asking for something. And if you don't do it, they give you a bad rap. On the other side, how great is it to have fans? How great is it to be able to influence people in a positive way? Why wouldn't you want to flip that switch?"
Whether Spieth wins his second Masters on Sunday will likely have a lot more to do with his driver than his temperament. Getting mad and growling at the ball (or at Greller) for a few seconds seems to actually help, almost like a valve releasing pressure on a pipe when it might otherwise burst. What's so impressive about Spieth is the way he has thrown himself back in the mix again, and gotten in position to win a Masters that's so different than the one he played in a year ago.
A year ago, Spieth spent the better part of four days smiling and strolling through the azaleas, charming us all with his grace and his composure. But I like this version just as much. He's staring right through people. He has a bit of an edge to him, and to hold on for 18 more holes, it's clear he needs to keep it.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Bernhard Langer came to Augusta without a logo on the front of his visor. But after playing himself into contention, the 58-year-old, two-time Masters champion struck a deal late Saturday night with private aviation charter company Wheels Up for his final round on Sunday.
Langer has been a Wheels Up spokesman for a couple of years after being introduced to the company through Brad Faxon.
Bernhard Langer could rewrite golf's history books on Sunday at the Masters, and in doing so, he could provide a stunning conclusion to the year's first major.
Get the latest scores from Sunday's Round 4 of the Masters.
After seeing that his hat was blank, Wheels Up co-founder Bill Allard said he called Langer's agent, Ken Kennerly. Allard said Kennerly told him that Langer had several lucrative offers from companies.
"We just said that we've been there for him and that we hoped he would show some loyalty," Allard said.
At 9 ET Saturday night, Wheels Up was told it had a deal in exchange for more free miles in the air for Langer.
Allard said that he would get someone to put a German flag on the side of his visor for Sunday. So Sunday morning, an embroiderer was found in Augusta, and Langer got his hat for the final round at 11 a.m.
Eric Smallwood of Apex Marketing Group, a sponsorship evaluation firm, said that a logo on the front of Langer's hat for Saturday's round alone would be worth $2.21 million in equivalent advertising time.
Langer began his final round 2 strokes behind leader Jordan Spieth.
Wheels Up isn't a stranger to last-minute marketing. It closed a deal to be on the pants of jockey Victor Espinoza days before American Pharoah won the Triple Crown at the Belmont.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Sergio Garcia says he's played the 13th hole well all week but without any reward and admits he got a break on Saturday with the ball avoiding the hazard to allow Garcia to get a birdie. (1:35)
AUGUSTA, Ga. -- Justin Rose had a back-nine charge so common at Augusta National. Sergio Garcia finally caught a good break in a major. Jordan Spieth got his name high on those famous white leaderboards -- the only spot he has ever occupied on the weekend at the Masters.
Saturday had something for everyone at the Masters, including the promise of more to come.
"Saturday's gone, and now Sunday's coming -- a very exciting Sunday," Garcia said after making a 7-foot par putt on the final hole for a 2-under 70 to share the lead with Rose. "Just make sure we have a good chance coming into the last five or six holes, and see what happens."
He's not trendy like Rickie Fowler. Not passionate like Sergio. So what's Justin Rose? Nothing but perfectly poised to win the Masters on Sunday.
We should have seen this coming, Jordan Spieth playing back into contention after making a quadruple-bogey in Round 1. Why? There's just something about Augusta that turns him into a virtuoso.
There are only six golfers between Adam Scott and the lead after 54 holes, but the Aussie knows he needs to convert with his putter if he's going to bring home his second Masters title.
Garcia, the most vexed player without a major in his generation, hung his head when a 4-iron from the first cut of rough on the par-5 13th came out soft and disappeared into the tributary of Rae's Creek in front of the green. Just his luck, the ball bounced softly off the bank and stayed up, and from there the Spaniard hit a tough chip to tap-in range to turn a potential bogey into a birdie.
Rose was an afterthought, five shots behind, when his tee shot to a left pin on the par-3 12th dropped in 5 feet from the hole for the first of five birdies on the back nine. He took care of the par 5s and then finished with a 20-foot birdie on the 17th and a 12-foot birdie on the 18th for a Saturday-best 67.
Rose has a share of the 54-hole lead for the first time in a major. He also has a U.S. Open title from Merion and an Olympic gold medal from Rio. And when he surveyed the landscape, he's not sure any of that matters.
There is too much golf left. There are too many capable players. Too much can happen around this place.
"A 1-shot lead starting the day doesn't mean much," Rose said. "You're going to have to go out and play a good round of golf, and I think there's going to be four or five guys pretty much with the same mindset tomorrow."
Rose and Garcia were at 6-under 210, and that 1-shot lead was over Rickie Fowler, who has never been this close to the lead in a major going into the final round. Fowler also has never felt better about his game or his chances.
He didn't do anything special, except to birdie all the par 5s to offset a few miscues in his round of 71.
"I don't think anyone is going to put themselves far enough out front where they can cruise in," said Fowler, who will be paired with Spieth in the penultimate group, with a 2:35 p.m. tee time.
Rose and Garcia are set to tee off at 2:45 p.m. ET Sunday.
Perhaps the most daunting name at Augusta National was Spieth, who began this Masters with a quadruple-bogey 9 on the 15th hole of the opening round and was 10 shots out of the lead when he trudged off the course Thursday.
He went 29 straight holes without a bogey until a three-putt from below the ridge on the par-3 16th. By then, he already was squarely back in the mix with a few good bounces and his frightening touch on the greens. He also pulled off a shot from the pine straw on the 13th by telling his caddie, "What would Arnie do?"
It was his way of saying Arnold Palmer would go for it and his way of letting Michael Greller know that he was feeling it. He drilled a 5-iron into 30 feet and narrowly missed the eagle putt. Two holes later, he nearly holed a wedge from the 15th fairway.
Spieth had a 2-shot lead with 11 holes to play in his Masters debut in 2014 and was runner-up to Bubba Watson. He went wire-to-wire to win in 2015. He threw away a 5-shot lead on the back nine last year for another runner-up finish.
Here he is again.
"Waking up and you have a chance to win your favorite tournament that you've dreamt of winning and competing in since you were a kid and to be able to have your fourth opportunity now ... I didn't know going into my first one if I would have five chances in my life," Spieth said. "So it's awesome."
Spieth was tied with Ryan Moore (69) and Charley Hoffman, who led for much of the day until he put his tee shot into the water on the par-3 16th and made double-bogey. Hoffman battled for par on the last hole to stay just two shots behind.
Only 10 players remained under par, all of them separated by five shots. That group includes former Masters champions Adam Scott (69) and Charl Schwartzel (68). Lee Westwood, a runner-up last year, also had a 68 and was five shots back.
"[With] the great players in front, and in conditions like this, it's going to be hard because you're going to have to make it happen," Scott said.
That's the allure of Augusta National, and it's never more appealing than when so many top players are right there with a chance. That includes Garcia, who has had close calls in every major he has played except the Masters -- until now.
"It's the kind of place that if you are trying to fight against it, it's going to beat you down," Garcia said. "So you've just got to roll with it and realize that sometimes you're going to get good breaks, like has happened to me a few times this week, and sometimes you're going to get not so good breaks. But at the end of the day, that's part of the game."
And it's a big part of Augusta National, which could prove to be the ultimate challenge.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Justin Rose reacts to falling just short in the final round of the Masters and explains that even though the loss stings, he still felt good about his performance on Sunday. (2:06)
AUGUSTA, Ga. -- Justin Rose is fully aware of the pitfalls of his sport, that there is just one winner every week, that the defeats far outweigh the victories in a cruel game that quite often does not produce a happy ending.
Coming so close on Sunday at Augusta National does not make it any easier -- although Rose handled the aftermath of his playoff loss to Sergio Garcia at the Masters with class and grace, and he spoke of having many more chances.
Perhaps that is due, in part, to already having won a major championship at the 2013 U.S. Open. Or maybe it has something to do with the start to his professional career 19 years ago, when after finishing fourth at The Open at Royal Birkdale, he went on to miss 21 consecutive cuts.
But Rose led by 2 shots with six holes to play. He was up by 1 stroke with two left. He had a birdie putt on the 18th green that somehow stayed out and potentially could have won the tournament.
And so it was Rose taking consolation honors, while Garcia celebrated his first major championship.
"It's going to sting, for sure," Rose said.
How could it not? The Englishman who last summer won the gold medal at the first Olympic golf tournament in Rio was poised to join Ben Hogan as the only players to win major championships at Merion and Augusta National. He was set to join Danny Willett and Nick Faldo as the only players from England to win the Masters, while giving the country two green jackets in a row. And when Garcia pulled his drive and needed to take a penalty for an unplayable lie at the 13th hole, it seemed Rose was destined to win.
But Garcia rallied to hole an 8-footer for par. Rose missed a birdie putt from a shorter distance. And the game was still on.
"That little 2-shot swing there was kind of when he was back in the tournament," Rose said. "I feel like if he misses at that point, I make [mine] -- I'm four clear and I've got my eye on Thomas Pieters and Matt Kuchar instead."
All you need to know about the Masters 2017, including day-by-day results and analysis from Augusta National.
Who got top marks for their Masters performance? Sergio Garcia, of course, but also a little kid with an orange shirt.
But the lead remained at two, and Garcia had new life. Garcia hit laser irons shots at the 14th and 15th holes to set up a birdie and an eagle, respectively, forging a tie with three holes to go. Rose took the lead with a birdie at the 16th -- where Garcia missed from short range -- only to have Rose blink on the next hole, making a bogey to set up the final hole and playoff dramatics.
"I would say this one probably is one that slipped by," said Rose, 36, who has battled Garcia, 37, going back to their amateur days in Europe. "I can't pick holes in my performance. I felt fantastic out there. I felt cool, calm and collected. Could I have made the putt on 17? Of course I could. But for the most part, I'm not going to sit here and second-guess one or two shots. I really stepped up. I felt great. I felt in control. I felt positive. I felt confident.
"And barring a great comeback from Sergio, it was mine to cruise to the house. But it's not always that easy. At the end of the day, you're going to win majors and you're going to lose majors, but you've got to be willing to lose them. You've got to put yourself out there. You've got to hit the top of the leaderboard.
"There's a lot of pressure out there, and if you're not willing to enjoy it, then you're not ready to win these tournaments. I loved it out there."
Rose shot 69 to match Garcia, birdieing three straight holes on the front side after a bogey at the fifth. He didn't relinquish the lead until Garcia momentarily jumped ahead of him with his eagle at the 15th, which then was matched by Rose's birdie putt. It wasn't until a wayward drive at the 18th in the playoff by Rose that Garcia had his opening.
"Masters Sunday, it's a special day," said Rose, who has seven victories on the PGA Tour and nine on the European Tour. "Being in the final group is an incredible experience. The crowd, there's a lot of energy out there. It must have been fun to watch."
It was, and a shame one golfer had to lose.
This was Rose's 13th top-10 finish in a major and eighth top 5. He has now had five top 10s at the Masters, including each of the past three years.
"I really feel like this is a tournament that I can still go on to win," Rose said. "I'd like to win three or four green jackets, but one would be enough, you know. I just want to win here. So I have plenty more looks, and I feel good about it happening.
"For me, golf is about April to September. That's where the big tournaments are. That's where the tournaments that change your career are. So this is the first one of four. I feel motivated for the summer, and I will be moving on and setting goals very quickly after this."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MOBILE, Ala. -- Lorena Ochoa moved into position to wrap up
the LPGA Tour player of the year race and win her sixth title of
the year, shooting a 9-under 63 on Saturday to take a five-stroke
lead in the LPGA Tournament of Champions.
The 24-year-old Mexican star, seeking her third straight
victory, needs a victory Sunday to win the player of the year
points race and become the first player other than Annika Sorenstam
or Karrie Webb to secure the honor since 1996.
"This is a really big tournament for me because of that,"
Ochoa said about clinching the award before facing Sorenstam and
Webb next week in the season-ending ADT Championship. "I think it
will be a lot easier to get that done, player of the year. This is
a tough tournament, tough competition and the golf course is
playing tough.
Ochoa, coming off a three-week break, had a 14-under 202 total
on Magnolia Grove's Crossings Course. In her last two starts, she
won the Corona Morelia Championship in Mexico and rallied to beat
Sorenstam in the Samsung World Championship.
"I'm just glad that I'm in a good position," Ochoa said. "I'm
glad that I'm in the final group. That was my goal, just to have a
chance to win the tournament. I don't want to think all of that. I
want to get here tomorrow, not think about it, have fun, have a
good round. I'm not going to think all of the things outside, just
play my own game tomorrow and enjoy."
Creamer shot a 69.
"She played well today," Creamer said about Ochoa. "I can go
out and play well like she did today, tomorrow. I will be playing
with her. I'm still in the last group, which is nice. She has been
playing really well, so that will help motivate myself."
Hall of Famer Juli Inkster, who started the day tied for the
lead with Moira Dunn, was third at 7 under after a 73. Stacy
Prammanasudh (71) was 6 under, while Dunn (78) was 2 under.
Ochoa has played the last 33 holes in 13 under, an amazing
recovery from a quadruple bogey-8 on the first hole of the second
round. She also bogeyed the third hole Friday and at that point was
1 under for the tournament.
"I think after yesterday, the way I started the round and how
mental it was for me, just to try to make birdies and catch up and
get myself in a good position," Ochoa said. "I was just tired,
mentally tired. Today was the opposite. Everything was just so
easy, just one of those days."
Starting the day three strokes behind the leaders, Ochoa made up
ground quickly with a birdie-eagle-birdie streak on Nos. 3-5 that
put here in the lead. A bogey from the bunker on the par-3 eighth
momentarily broke her momentum and dropped her into a tie with
Cristie Kerr and Inkster for the lead.
With the north wind picking up and temperature dropping, Ochoa
seized control with five birdies in the next six holes, including
four in a row.
"I got a good momentum early and I thought I would keep it
going during the day," Ochoa said. "I guess I know I can do it. I
really only play one hole at a time. It was one of those days that
everything worked and I was hitting the ball good. I felt good with
my putts and I think my distance control really helped me today to
put the ball close and make some birdies."
She had the chance to match the tournament- and course-record 62
set by Carin Koch in 2002, but her 10-foot birdie putt lipped out
of the right edge of the cup.
"I knew there was a 10 under before and I was trying hard to go
10 under," Ochoa said. "It just lipped out. It's a great day."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEWPORT, R.I. -- Michelle Wie stood on the balcony of the
stately clubhouse at Newport Country Club, which ordinarily offers
a spectacular view on a century-old golf course that juts into the
Atlantic Ocean.
Thursday afternoon, she was lucky to see 180 yards away to the
fifth green.
The U.S. Women's Open dodged the rain, but ran into weather that
left the players feeling even more hopeless -- a soupy fog that
limited visibility to 75 yards along the ocean holes and wiped out
the first round.
It was the first time since the 2003 Masters that the start of a
major was postponed one day. The USGA could not remember that ever
happening at the U.S. Women's Open, or any of its championships.
"It's unusual to get fog where you're delayed or you can't play
all day long," said Mike Davis, senior director of rules and
competition.
The first round was rescheduled for Friday, followed by the
second round Saturday. Davis said there would be a 36-hole Sunday,
the first time that's happened at the U.S. Women's Open since 1990
at Atlanta Athletic Club, where Betsy King overcame an 11-shot
deficit early on the last day to beat Patty Sheehan.
Wie and former Women's Open champions Juli Inkster and Meg Mallon were among those were supposed to tee off Thursday morning, and instead spent nearly 10 hours at Newport waiting to tee off.
"It just got worse and worse," Wie said. "I just took this
day to relax; I just chilled."
The 16-year-old from Hawaii, who once said nap time was her favorite part of kindergarten, said she dozed off for 30 minutes at
one point but "I was scared I might fall asleep and miss my tee
time."
Play originally was suspended 30 minutes, and then announcements
followed about every half-hour. The practice range was packed with
players anticipating a 3 p.m. start when word spread that the first
round was called off.
"There's been a reversal," Meg Mallon called out to the other
players. "The late groups go early tomorrow."
She was joking, but only barely. Mallon woke up at 5 a.m.
Thursday to get ready for her 7:22 a.m. tee time. She was headed
back to her hotel in the afternoon so she could do it all over
again.
"I would rather have finished today so I could have a full day
of rest," she said. "But there's nothing we can do. I'm just
thankful I didn't have to play in a driving rain if that's what was
supposed to follow the fog."
Davis said rain was in the forecast Thursday night, although
"we haven't been right to this point." Newport already is
saturated from 13 inches of rain over the last six weeks, and a
half-dozen holes were made shorter for the first round to account
for a 6,564-yard course that would play even longer in soft, windy
conditions.
The only length that came into play Thursday was waiting around.
Wendy Ward was in the first group to tee off at 7 a.m., and as
she returned to the range in the afternoon, she said to no one in
particular, "This is the third time I've hit balls today. I
usually don't do that in a week."
U.S. Women's Amateur champion Jane Park came into the media
center at 7 a.m. to visit with USGA officials and kill time, and
she bounced between the range, the putting green and the clubhouse.
Perhaps too much time in the clubhouse.
"I did a lot of eating, chatting, some more eating, a little
more chatting, a lot more eating," said Park, who just finished
her freshman year at UCLA. "Those lemon meringue things were
good."
She also caught up with Wie, Brittany Lang and Paula Creamer,
her teammates from the 2004 Curtis Cup.
Virada Nirapathpongporn also was in the first group off the
first tee, and the only bright spot was seeing her name on the
leaderboard, even though there were no scores posted next to her
name.
"But I couldn't always see the board," she said with a laugh,
alluding to the shroud of fog.
Even away from the ocean, the visibility was about 140 yards
when the fog was at its worst. The USGA considered starting
Thursday afternoon when players could see some 300 yards, but it
wasn't long before the dense fog returned. Davis said players had
to be able to see landing areas for their tee shots and the flag as
they approached the green, and that was never the case on the back
nine.
Wie was never too bothered, and was glad to be going home.
"There were always rain delays in the U.S. Amateur," she said.
"You have to expect it in the summer in the Northeast."
This is the first professional major at Newport, one of the five
founding clubs of the USGA, since it held the U.S. Amateur and the
U.S. Open one day apart in 1895, the first two majors held in the
United States. The other major event was 100 years later, when
Tiger Woods won the second of his three straight U.S. Amateur
titles.
So one tradition will continue at Newport -- its other final days
were all 36 holes.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. -- Fred Funk will make his Champions
Tour debut next week in the U.S. Senior Open at Prairie Dunes
Country Club in Hutchinson, Kan.
The seven-time PGA Tour winner, the tour's driving accuracy
leader this season at 77.3 percent, also is scheduled to play the
Ford Senior Players Championship the following week in Dearborn,
Mich. He has made 18 PGA Tour starts this year, tying for second in
the Zurich Classic of New Orleans and earning $1,152,197.
"I think everyone really pinches themselves when you think
about the fact that at age 50 you can start all over again," Funk
said Thursday.
The former Maryland coach turned 50 on June 14.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HUTCHINSON, Kan. -- Arnold Palmer withdrew from next week's
U.S. Senior Open because his game is not up to his standards, the
second time this year he has pulled out of a senior major.
"In my judgment, my golf right now is far below the level that
I would feel comfortable with as a bona fide contestant," Palmer
said in a statement Friday. "I hope that the fans who have given
me such wonderful support over the years will understand and accept
this decision."
Palmer had played 25 straight times in the U.S. Senior Open,
winning in 1981 at Oakland Hills. He has not played a tournament
since last October on the Champions Tour, and his last competitive
golf came at the Champions Skins Game in February.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
VERSAILLES, France -- England's John Bickerton shot a
1-under 70 on Friday to retain a one-shot lead after the second
round of the French Open.
Bickerton is at 9-under 133, ahead of Scotland's Gary Orr, who
is one back after a 65.
Jose Manuel Lara of Spain (68), Bradley Dredge of Wales (66),
Michael Campbell of New Zealand (70) and Joakim Backstrom of Sweden
(69) are at 135.
Bickerton, seeking his second European Tour win, bogeyed his
first hole, regrouped with three birdies in his next eight, but
then dropped shots at the 12th and 17th holes.
"I three-putted the first but really didn't get the pace of the
greens today," he said. "Yesterday they were rolling nicely and
today I was leaving a lot short on line. But it's not a bad score
at the end of the day and I am still up there.
"I've got a wicked headache I think from concentration and
dehydration."
Orr recorded the best score of the day as he sought his first
win in six years. In 2000, he won the Algarve Portuguese Open and
the Victor Chandler British Masters.
Since then, Orr has struggled, losing his playing card at the
end of the 2004 season before regaining full membership last season
with three top-10 finishes in his first four events.
England's David Howell, the leader on the European Tour Order of
Merit, missed the cut after scores of 78 and 73 for a 9-over par
151.
Seve Ballesteros missed the cut with two rounds of 81 for a
20-over par. Also Friday, a nagging back injury forced European
Ryder Cup captain Ian Woosnam to withdraw.
Former French Open champion Philip Walton of Ireland was
disqualified earlier in the day when he failed to appear for his
tee time.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CROMWELL, Conn. -- Darron Stiles has been in this position
before -- and not that long ago.
Stiles made a 10-foot birdie putt on his final hole Friday to
top the crowded leaderboard in the Buick Championship at 8-under
132.
In the hunt for his first PGA Tour since joining the tour in
2003, Stiles also was the 36-hole leader in Memphis last month, but
faded to tie for 22nd.
"I think in Memphis I got ahead of myself and my brain,"
Stiles said. "And since then I've realized that you really can't
do that."
There's nothing wrong with his timing this week.
Stiles shot his second straight 4-under 66 on Friday to take a
one-stroke lead over Peter Lonard, with 25 players within four
strokes of the lead -- including three who have won on the TPC at
River Highlands.
A four-time winner on the Nationwide Tour, Stiles has split his
time between tours this season, playing seven events on each before
this week. He's making his third appearance in Hartford. His best
finish with a tie for 9th last year.
"From the day I stepped on the course back in 2003, I felt very
comfortable here," Stiles said. "Just something clicks when I get
here."
Lonard followed his opening 65 with a 68, while former Hartford
champions Stewart Cink (65) and Notah Begay III (66) were 6 under
along with Scott Verplank (69) and Todd Fischer (68). Another
former champ, Brent Geiberger (68), was in a group of six at 5
under.
"I'm not playing those guys. I'm playing the golf course,"
Stiles said. "Whoever beats the golf course the best over those 36
holes is going to win."
One off the lead to begin the round Friday, Stiles was even
through nine holes, then birdied the first three holes after the
turn. He tied Lonard at 7 under with a birdie on the par-4,
429-yard fourth hole, his 12th after starting on the back nine.
Stiles hit his approach from 147 yards to 6 inches and tapped in
for birdie.
Lonard was even on his first five holes, and made his only bogey
on the par-5, sixth hole. Until then, the Australian said he
thought he was cruising along.
"I was thinking, 'You beauty, it's going in the hole,'" Lonard
said. "The next thing I'm removing it from a fold-up chair.
Outside of that shot I was really happy."
Cink had a bogey-free round. His win here in 1997 was his first
on tour he's picked up three more since then. Although the course
hasn't changed much since Cink's win, his game and the game in
general has. So has the payday. Cink earned $270,000 for the win.
Sunday's winner will pocket $792,000.
"It's just been a more aggressive style of play out here than
it used to be with the distance that everybody's gained," Cink
said. "This course is one of the courses that has changed very
little since the players really started bombing it. I remember when
even par was considered to be a good score on this course."
On Friday, even par was the cut line and 73 players from the
field of 156 advanced to weekend play. Among the notables sent
packing were defending champ Brad Faxon (5 over), Paul Azinger (3
over) and Jerry Kelly (11 over).
Begay, whose last tour win was at Hartford in 2000, has
struggled ever since with chronic back pain because of an injured
disk. He has been in only four tour events this season and has
missed every cut. His 66 has him back in contention and he said
reliving the 2000 win here has helped him get through the pain.
"I'm kind of forced to go through those memory banks, and
literally every hole I'm walking out here I'm trying to remember
where did I hit it in 2000 and how did it make me feel," Begay
said. "It's allowed me to stay calm."
What Begay did at River Highlands is still part of the record
books. His 20-under 260 total remains the tournament record since
the event moved from the nearby Wethersfield Country Club to
Cromwell in 1984. The victory was his second straight that season
and the only other back-to-back winner on tour that year was his
former Stanford teammate, Tiger Woods.
Just getting loose enough to swing a club means nearly an hour
of stretching and riding the stationary bike for Begay. He's had
114 tour starts since his last win and despite the pain and
setbacks, the 33-year-old Begay stays positive. Because of the
tour, he's been able to start several programs for children on his
reservation in New Mexico.
"I don't need to have a good resume on the golf course to be a
positive member of my community," Begay said.
Divots
Joe Ogilvie shot 7-under 63, the best round of the
tournament so far. It helped him jump 94 spots from a tie for 101st
to a tie for seventh. ... Patrick Sheehan had a hole-in-one on the
par-3 fifth hole and also holed out from 164 yards on No. 17 to
save par after hitting his tee shot into the water. He shot his
second straight 69. ... There were 13 eagles, the most in a round
since the tournament moved to River Highlands in 1984.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
OVERLAND PARK, Kan. -- David Edwards shot a 9-under 63 on
Friday to grab the first-round lead as par took a beating in the
Greater Kansas City Golf Classic.
The 50-year-old Edwards did not have a bogey in his morning
round on the Nicklaus Golf Club at LionsGate course. On the
442-yard par-4 18th, he rolled in a 60-footer for his ninth birdie
and a two-stroke lead over Bob Gilder, Tom Jenkins, Des Smyth and
Brad Bryant, the third-leading money winner on the Champions Tour.
Scores were generally lower than expected on the 6-year-old
Nicklaus-designed layout as the wind was calmer than it often is
this time of year on the Plains.
Two more strokes back at 5 under were defending champion Dana Quigley,
Gary McCord, Lonnie Nielsen and Jim Chancey, who came in
ranked 99th on the money list. Bobby Wadkins, who aced the 211-yard
second hole with a 4-iron, was in a five-player group at 68, and 10
players opened with 69s.
Jay Haas, the leading money winner and a three-time Champions
Tour winner this year, struggled to a 71. Loren Roberts, No. 2 on
the money list, shot a 73.
Edwards, playing in the day's first group, said he hadn't been
putting well the week before.
"You try too hard sometimes to force them in and you can't get
anything to go in," said Edwards, who is looking for his first
Champions Tour victory.
"And sometimes when you don't expect them to go in they start
falling in. Today they found the hole. If I can do that again the
next couple of days, I ought to stay in the hunt."
Jenkins, who lost to John Harris on the first playoff hole last
week at the Commerce Bank Championship, holed out a middle-iron
shot from the fairway for an eagle 2 for the second tournament in a
row.
Last Saturday, he sank a 7-iron shot on the wet and spongy sixth
hole of the Red Course at Eisenhower Park. On Friday, his 6-iron
shot on the par-4 fifth hole at LionsGate sailed about 175 feet to
the dry green and "kind of trickled in."
"We're kind of getting these little spurts in the middle of
these rounds, which is a pretty good feeling," said Jenkins, a
six-time winner on the Champions Tour.
"This was a was a huge, huge boost in my confidence. I felt
pretty good about the round. I felt I was maintaining my patience.
I was driving it well, hitting my irons crisp."
Jenkins also was glad he had decided this week to retire a
driver he'd used for more than two years.
With the new club, he said, "you could tell the flight of the
golf ball was stable and it didn't have any drift to it."
"If you can drive the ball and have confidence in it, it's
fairly easy to score out here," he said.
Crowd favorite Tom Watson, who twice has finished second in this
tournament but never won a professional event in his hometown, was
eight strokes back at 71.
"That was a pretty lousy round of golf," said Watson. "You
look at the scores and you saw a lot of great scores out there.
With this type of wind, you're going to make a lot of birdies on
the par-5s. I had an ugly round out there and it was not a whole
lot of fun for me."
Watson denied he feels extra pressure playing in front of his
hometown fans, who always make him the gallery favorite.
"It's fun playing here. I'm just disappointed in the way I
played," he said. "It's never fun to not perform well, but it's a
day-to-day thing. Tomorrow I could go out and shoot a 63. I should
be able to handle this golf course better than I did today. It's
not that. I put the pressure on myself swinging the golf club
poorly."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
VERSAILLES, France -- Second-round scores from the Peek'n Peak Classic, played at the 7,025-yard, par 72 Upper Course at the Peek'n Peak Resort:
Jason Dufner                 69-68--137 7-under
Dave Rummells                66-72--138 6-under
Andrew Pratt                 70-68--138
Charlie Wi                   67-71--138
Craig Bowden                 70-68--138
Nick Malinowski              71-67--138
Kyle Reifers                 72-67--139 5-under
David Mathis                 69-70--139
Michael Bradley              71-69--140 4-under
Glen Hnatiuk                 70-70--140
Michael Putnam               71-69--140
Steve Wheatcroft             71-69--140
Jeff Quinney                 72-68--140
Gavin Coles                  72-68--140
John Merrick                 71-69--140
D.J. Brigman                 72-69--141 3-under
Esteban Toledo               67-74--141
Tom Johnson                  71-70--141
Kyle Thompson                70-71--141
Jin Park                     70-71--141
David Roesch                 71-70--141
Doug LaBelle II              70-71--141
Brandt Snedeker              71-70--141
Jason Caron                  70-71--141
David Morland IV             67-74--141
Spike McRoy                  71-70--141
Craig Lile                   75-66--141
Tripp Isenhour               71-71--142 2-under
Rick Price                   68-74--142
Tom Scherrer                 67-75--142
Dan Olsen                    72-70--142
Jarrod Lyle                  72-70--142
Scott Gardiner               71-71--142
Nick Flanagan                71-71--142
Jaco Van Zyl                 71-71--142
Russ Cochran                 70-72--142
Peter Tomasulo               76-66--142
Paul Claxton                 72-70--142
Zoran Zorkic                 72-70--142
Hunter Haas                  75-68--143 1-under
Kevin Durkin                 73-70--143
Chris Anderson               70-73--143
Barry Cheesman               73-70--143
Tom Gillis                   69-74--143
Joseph Alfieri               70-73--143
Tim Wilkinson                71-72--143
Bob Heintz                   77-66--143
Chez Reavie                  70-73--143
Erik Compton                 72-71--143
Brad Adamonis                72-72--144 Even
Scott Petersen               73-71--144
Tom Carter                   74-70--144
Brent Schwarzrock            73-71--144
Kim Felton                   71-73--144
Steve Larick                 72-72--144
Steve Allan                  70-74--144
Parker McLachlin             74-70--144
Andrew Buckle                75-69--144
Nate Lashley                 72-72--144
Doug Garwood                 72-72--144
Failed to qualify
Joel Edwards                 70-75--145 1-over
Matt Gogel                   73-72--145
Ryan Howison                 72-73--145
David Ogrin                  76-69--145
Boo Weekley                  73-72--145
Andrew Dahl                  74-71--145
Scott Parel                  74-71--145
Elliot Gealy                 74-71--145
Tony Mollica                 70-75--145
Matt Weibring                72-73--145
Matt Hendrix                 72-73--145
Kevin Johnson                71-74--145
Bryce Molder                 76-69--145
David Hearn                  73-72--145
Chris Baryla                 76-69--145
Scott Ford                   72-74--146 2-over
Keith Nolan                  74-72--146
Brad Elder                   73-73--146
Mike Heinen                  73-73--146
Trevor Dodds                 71-75--146
Jason Allred                 74-72--146
Joel Hendry                  70-76--146
James Oh                     74-72--146
Jeff Freeman                 72-74--146
Ben Bates                    72-75--147 3-over
Brett Bingham                73-74--147
David Sutherland             74-73--147
Joe Daley                    71-76--147
Scott Gump                   76-71--147
Cliff Kresge                 73-74--147
Grant Waite                  73-74--147
Steve Pate                   76-71--147
Chip Beck                    71-76--147
Kevin Gessino-Kraft          73-74--147
Anthony Painter              72-75--147
Jeremy Anderson              70-77--147
Ron Harvey, Jr.              71-76--147
Stephen Marino               78-69--147
Mario Tiziani                72-75--147
Gary Christian               73-75--148 4-over
Chris Nallen                 76-72--148
Jamie Broce                  79-69--148
Simon Nash                   75-73--148
Noah Zelnick                 74-74--148
Roberto Coceres              75-73--148
Roland Thatcher              74-74--148
Brad Klapprott               73-76--149 5-over
Brian Lamberti               72-77--149
Kevin Ward                   72-77--149
Ryan Armour                  76-73--149
Josh Broadaway               73-76--149
Scott Weatherly              77-72--149
Hiroshi Matsuo               76-73--149
Paul Wackerly                78-71--149
Brennan Webb                 74-75--149
Guy Boros                    76-74--150 6-over
Fran Quinn                   76-74--150
Perry Moss                   77-73--150
Jesse Mueller                78-72--150
Gary Hallberg                74-76--150
Michael Long                 75-75--150
Jason Buha                   76-74--150
Dan Buchner                  74-76--150
Jason Enloe                  74-76--150
Will Dottley                 75-76--151 7-over
Chad Collins                 74-77--151
Steven Alker                 72-79--151
Chip Deason                  80-71--151
John Morse                   77-74--151
Ryan Lavoie                  77-74--151
Aaron Barber                 78-73--151
Brad Ott                     75-76--151
Tyrone van Aswegen           76-75--151
Josh McCumber                74-77--151
David Faught                 76-76--152 8-over
Keoke Cotner                 75-77--152
Scott Hend                   73-79--152
Tyler Williamson             79-73--152
Brenden Pappas               77-76--153 9-over
Kirk Stauffer                78-75--153
Jeff Martin                  79-74--153
Robin Freeman                80-74--154 10-over
Michael Smith                76-78--154
Mike Springer                77-77--154
Ewan Porter                  79-75--154
Sam Randolph                 76-79--155 11-over
Joel Kribel                  78-77--155
Andrew Getson                80-76--156 12-over
Cameron Percy                77-80--157 13-over
Brian McCann                 82-75--157
Bryan Zurawski               77-81--158 14-over
Travis Perkins               78-84--162 18-over
Tom Keenan                   84-83--167 23-over
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
GOTEMBA, Japan -- Sergio Garcia shot a 4-under-par 68
Thursday to finish two shots off the lead after the first round of
the Taiheiyo Masters.
Garcia's Ryder Cup teammate Darren Clarke, who won the title the
last two years, slumped to a 3-over 75 after opening with two
birdies against six bogies.
Garcia eagled the 18th on the Gotemba Course after a bogey on
No. 17 and is tied with Taiwan's Yeh Wei-tze and Shinichi Yokota of
Japan.
Japan's Ryuichi Oda overcame an early bogey to shoot a
6-under-par 66 and take a one-shot, first-round lead.
Keiichiro Fukabori, Toru Taniguchi and Nobuhito Sato all shot
67s to sit one stroke behind Oda in second place.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MOBILE, Ala. -- Hall of Famer Juli Inkster birdied two of
her last three holes for a 3-under 69 and a share of the
second-round lead Friday with Moira Dunn in the LPGA Tournament of
Champions.
The 46-year-old Inkster, playing in just her fourth tournament
since her children started school in August, made a 25-foot birdie
putt on the 17th and closed with a par to match Dunn (67) at
8-under 136 on Magnolia Grove's Crossings Course.
After being allowed to lift, clean and place in the fairways on
Thursday because of wet conditions, the players played the ball
down Friday.
"It was a big slider," Inkster said of her 25-footer. "It was
a putt you're trying to get close and it was a bonus for me. I
don't think they want any more 8-under rounds. We played it down
today, the wind was up a little bit. They tucked the pins a little
bit more, so I foresee the same thing for the next couple of
days."
Dunn, who has missed the cut in 14 of 23 events this year,
rebounded from a double bogey on the 10th hole. Dunn qualified for
the tournament, limited to tournament winners from 2003-06, with
her lone career win in the 2004 Giant Eagle LPGA Classic.
"I kind of went back to basics, which is nice to have real
simple thoughts in your head in a golf game," Dunn said. "I kind
of just maybe got away from some of those basics and got a little
out of whack with my swing. I wasn't real confident. Playing good
for two days, hitting some really good golf shots, has helped my
confidence."
Cristie Kerr had the best round of the day, a 6-under 66 that
left her at 7 under. First-round leader Paula Creamer followed her
opening 64 with a 74 to drop two strokes back at 6 under.
Lorena Ochoa rebounded from a quadruple-bogey 8 on the first
hole to salvage a 73 that left her at 5 under with Stacy
Prammanasudh (71) and Karen Stupples (70).
"I am just glad that I managed to finish around par," said
Ochoa, who can wrap up player of the year honors with a win this
week.
Ochoa, the Mexican star who leads the money list and is tied for
tour victory lead with five, is seeking her third straight victory
and sixth of the year. She won the Corona Morelia Championship in
Mexico and followed with a comeback victory over Annika Sorenstam
in the Samsung World Championship.
"It was a tough start with that quad," Ochoa said. "I can't
remember making one of those before. It was a new experience, but
at the same time it was good that it happened on the first hole, so
I had 17 holes to try to catch up the rest of the round."
Ochoa had to take two unplayable lies on the opening hole and
make the long walk back down the fairway.
"The important thing is that I am only three shots away from
the lead and it helps to have two more days," she said. "I will
be fine. I will be ready to go tomorrow."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
RICHMOND, Texas -- PGA Tour winner Matt Kuchar shot a
7-under 65 on Friday for a share of the second-round lead in the
Nationwide Tour Championship.
Kuchar, the former Georgia Tech star who won the 2002 Honda
Classic for his lone PGA Tour title, joined Cliff Kresge (69),
Andrew Buckle (69), Chris Baryla (67 ) and Brandt Snedecker (68) at
8-under 136 on The Houstonian course
Craig Kanada (64), Johnson Wagner (67) and Jim O'Neal (68) were
a shot back in the season-ending tournament. Kanada's 8-under round
was the second-best in tournament history, behind only Jay
Delsing's in 2002.
The winner will earn $135,000, while the season money champion
will be fully exempt on the 2007 PGA Tour and earn a spot in The
Players Championship. Nos. 2-22 on the final money list will be
conditionally exempt on the PGA Tour and Nos. 23-37 will get spots
in the final stage of Q-school.
Kuchar, 12th on the money list with $234,867, had a much better
start in the second round after a double bogey to start the first
round. He had birdie putts of 10, 8 and 12 feet on the first three
holes Friday and eagled the par-5 16th for the second day.
"It's easier to be in the right attitude when you start out
good," Kuchar said. "Yesterday was one of those days when I was
on edge. Yesterday, I was frustrated. The goal today was to go out
with a good attitude and stay patient."
Kanada sat up Thursday night watching the Louisville-Rutgers
football game and then had trouble going to sleep. The sleep loss
didn't keep him from making four straight birdies on the back nine.
Kanada started fast with scrambling birdies on two of the first
three holes. He almost went in the water on the par-5 second but a
sand wedge put him 10 feet from the hole and he made the putt for
his first birdie. He hit another sand wedge to 12 feet on the third
hole for another birdie.
"All day long, I was waiting on my swing to catch up with me
and make a bogey," Kanada said. "It never did."
His birdie run started on No. 14 when Kanada chipped to 3 feet.
He hit 6-irons in close on the next three holes and dropped those
too for birdies. He snap-hooked his tee shot on the final hole but
hit a wedge to 5 feet and saved par.
Buckle bogeyed No. 17, dropping back to eight under and into a
tie for the lead.
"I was a little bit up and down today," Buckle said. "I
birdied the first hole, but I've been struggling with my driver.
Hopefully, I'll drive a little better on the weekend."
Baryla and Kresge missed chances to take the lead late in the
round. Baryla dropped to 8 under for the tournament with a bogey on
No. 17 and Kresge made his first bogey of the day on the final
hole.
Ken Duke tops the money list with $369,318, followed by Johnson Wagner ($356,319), Craig Bowden ($327,171), Kresge ($321,013) and
Jeff Quinney ($311,952).
Duke (71) was 3 under, Bowden (68) 5 under, and Quinney (68) 3
under.
Buckle entered the week 18th at $211,976, followed by
Doug LaBelle II ($210,174), John Merrick ($205,731), Bryce Molder
($202,957), No. 22 Jess Daley ($190,982) and current PGA Tour
outsiders Brenden Pappas ($189,770), Paul Gow ($179,593).
LaBelle (70) was 4 under, Merrick (71) 1 over, Molder (74) 1
over, Daley (73) 4 over, Pappas (70) 5 under, and Gow (71) 2 over.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NAPLES, Fla. -- Long-hitters John Daly and J.B. Holmes and
the distance-challenged duo of Justin Leonard and Scott Verplank
shot 9-under 63s on Friday to share the first-round lead in the
Merrill Lynch Shootout.
"I mean, for us, if one of us hits a decent drive, it's going
to be out there far enough," Daly said after the modified
alternate shot round on the Tiburon course.
Holmes, a rookie who won the FBR Open this year, finished second
in the tour's driving distance stats at 318.8 yards.
"I think this is the more difficult format of all the three,
but … this is the one I thought if we could just hang in there
and play well, we could definitely excel in the other formats, and
we played great," Holmes said.
The 12 teams will play a best-ball round Saturday and finish the
Greg Norman-hosted event Sunday with a scramble.
Jerry Kelly and Rod Pampling opened with a 64. Brad Faxon-J.J. Henry, Mark O'Meara-Jeff Sluman and Trevor Immelman-
Rory Sabbatini
shot 66s. Pampling replaced Peter Jacobsen, who underwent hip
replacement surgery.
The featured foursome of Norman and partner Nick Faldo, and
Annika Sorenstam and Fred Couples struggled. Sorenstam, the first
female player in the Shootout's 18 years, and Couples shot a 71,
and Norman and Faldo had a 72 -- leaving the teams 11th and 12th.
Daly and Holmes made their move on a six-hole stretch starting
at the par-3 12th. Holmes hit a 7-iron, then Daly made a 12-footer.
On No. 13, a par 4, Daly drove it to the back of the green, while
Holmes was a bit short of it. Daly nearly made the eagle putt, then
Holmes knocked in a 2-footer for birdie.
On the par-5 14th, Daly hit a 5-iron from 225 yards to 20 feet
and Holmes made the eagle putt -- the only one of five eagle attempts
the twosome had. Holmes hit his approach on No. 15 to a foot. On
No. 16, Daly sank a 12-footer for birdie. Holmes hit a 6-iron to 20
feet on No. 17, but Daly's eagle putt rolled over the edge.
Both Daly and Holmes both had 370-yard drives. Daly's was on the
par-4 13th, and Holmes' on the next hole to set up Daly's 225-yard,
5-iron shot.
Leonard finished 154th in the driving distance stats at 282.3
yards, while Verplank was 186th at 276.1. However, Verplank was
third in driving accuracy and Leonard 45th. Holmes was 187th and
Daly 190th.
"Those two boys, they make more putts than anybody I've ever
seen besides Tiger Woods," Daly said. "Both of those guys are
such straight hitters, they're both great players, and they can
both putt."
The two teams will paired together Saturday.
"You can probably see pretty much two different styles, ways to
play golf," Leonard said. "You know we're going to be hitting. I
imagine we'll be hitting first [from the fairway] on most of the
par 4s and par 5s. We just hope we get to hit our share of tee
shots first."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
GOTEMBA, Japan -- Sergio Garcia fell out of the lead at the
Taiheiyo Masters on Saturday, dropping four strokes back after 13
holes before darkness forced the suspension of the third round.
Garcia, who shared the overnight lead with Japanese players
Katsumasa Miyamoto and Daisuke Maruyama, had bogeys on Nos. 3 and 9
at the Gotemba Course and was tied for sixth on the 14th hole when
play was stopped.
Makoto Inoue of Japan was on top of the leaderboard at 11 under,
including a 68 after 16 holes on the day. Miyamoto was a stroke
back with a 1-under par through 13 holes, and Mamo Osanai was another
shot behind with a 1-under through 15.
Garcia's Ryder Cup teammate Darren Clarke, who has won the title
the last two years, was in 39th place after finishing the round
with a 73.
The start of Saturday's round was delayed due to rain.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NAPLES, Fla. -- Long-hitters John Daly and J.B. Holmes shot
a 10-under 62 on Saturday in the best-ball round to take a
one-stroke lead over two teams in the Merrill Lynch Shootout.
Daly and Holmes, who opened with a 63 on Friday in the modified
alternate shot round, had a 19-under 125 total on the Tiburon Golf
Club course. The $2.75 million event will conclude Sunday with a
scramble round.
Jerry Kelly and Rod Pampling matched Daly and Holmes with a 62
to join Justin Leonard and Scott Verplank (63) at 18 under.
"You don't want to get it too far behind those boys," Pampling
said. "We're far enough behind them off the tee. You don't want to
get far behind them on the score, too."
Daly and Holmes birdied Nos. 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14 and 15, then
broke a tie with Kelly and Pampling when Holmes made a 25-foot
birdie putt on No. 18.
"I think we brother-in-lawed it pretty good," Daly said. "The
front nine, I couldn't hit a fairway on the first six holes, and
J.B. kind of took care of that.
"But he played exceptionally well on the back nine. If I hit it
there 7 or 8 feet, he'd hit it in there 2 or 3."
Leonard and Verplank, who shared the first-round lead with Daly
and Holmes, birdied five of their last six holes to tie Kelly and
Pampling.
Defending champions Kenny Perry and John Huston had the lowest
score of the day, an 11-under 61 that moved them into a three-way
tie for fourth with Trevor Immelman and Rory Sabbatini (63) and
Mark O'Meara and Jeff Sluman (63).
The teams of Annika Sorenstam and Fred Couples, and tournament
host Greg Norman and Nick Faldo struggled again. Norman and Faldo
(65) were 11th at 7 under, and Sorenstam and Couples (67) were last
in the 12-team field at 6 under.
"It's been great. I'm loving it," said Sorenstam, the first
female player in the Shootout. "I just wish I could help my
partner a little bit more. He's such a good sport and I'm having a
good time. For me to get a chance to play with Nick Faldo and
Greg Norman, it doesn't get any better than that."
The winners Sunday will split $675,000.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
EVIAN-LES-BAINS, France -- Morgan Pressel took a two-stroke lead after three rounds of the Evian Masters on Saturday, closing with an eagle for a 5-under 67.
The American began the day three strokes behind after a 72 Friday. She will enter Sunday's final round at 11 under, followed by South Koreans Jiyai Shin and Jeong Jang.
Pressel felt she could have been further ahead but for a mistake in her club selection on the third hole.
"I got off to a good start: birdied the first hole, made a little bit of a mess on three, more of a mental error than anything," Pressel said. "I just shouldn't have hit driver off the tee and made bogey."
Shin, who was briefly ranked No. 1 following Lorena Ochoa's retirement this year, had five birdies and a bogey in a round of 68. Jang shot a 70.
Second-round leader Mika Miyazato had a 74. She fell four strokes behind Pressel after a round marked by five bogeys, including a stretch of three in a row.
Brittany Lincicome, one of the longest drivers in women's golf, had a 65. Her round included six birdies and an eagle on the 16th hole. She was three strokes behind Pressel and tied for fourth with Alexis Thompson (67) at 8 under.
"I was hitting the fairways and my putting was working well. It's one of those days when everything seems to go right for you," Lincicome said. "I would like to be able to play that way all year, but the problem with golf is that everything changes from one day to the next."
Gwladys Nocera was one off the lead after two rounds, but the Frenchwoman slipped down the leaderboard with a 76, undone by five bogeys.
Michelle Wie had a better day after her 77 on Friday, showing more consistency with a 70 to move to 1 under.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. --  K.J. Choi did everything demanded of the winner at The Players Championship.
Not only did he hit the island green on the 17th hole at the TPC Sawgrass, he did it three times in one day. With the tournament on the line, he got up-and-down for par from 80 feet on the final hole Sunday.
Despite everything Choi did to win, this Players Championship might be remembered as much for how it was lost.
David Toms, who hit 6-iron out of a divot and made an 18-foot birdie putt on the hardest hole to force a playoff, missed a 3½-foot par putt on the 17th to hand Choi the biggest win of his career.
"No excuses, no spike marks, no ball marks, no nothing," Toms said of his three-putt bogey on the first sudden-death playoff hole. "Maybe a lot of pressure. But other than that, there was no excuse."
On a hole designed to provide great theater -- the island-green 17th -- the finish fell flat.
Both players hit the green in the playoff, and the advantage went to Toms with a shot that settled about 18 feet away. Choi lagged his long birdie putt about 3 feet by the hole, and Toms thought he had a winner with his 18-foot putt until it slid by the cup and rolled 3½ feet by the cup. Into the grain, slightly uphill, he didn't strike it solidly and missed.
Choi tapped in his putt and pumped his fist, yet his heart felt for the 44-year-old Toms.
"As a fellow player, I felt very sorry for him," Choi said. "Because I know how that feels. And I felt bad for him."
Choi had reason to celebrate for his own feats. Winless on the PGA Tour for three years, he took the outright lead with a 10-foot birdie on the 17th in regulation, saved par on the 18th with a putt from just in side 5 feet to close with a 2-under 70 and kept his nerves steady.
The South Korean lived in Jacksonville briefly when he first came to America and once practiced at the TPC Sawgrass, although he said his game wasn't good enough then to break par.
Now, Choi is The Players champion, a winner of the biggest event on the PGA Tour.
"For me to shoot under par every day on this course this week, it's like a miracle, to be honest with you," Choi said.
Choi won for the eighth time in his PGA Tour career, picked up $1.71 million from the biggest purse in tournament golf, moved to No. 15 in the world and all but assured himself a spot on the Presidents Cup team.
Toms, winless in five years, had an easy time taking away positives. He was the 36-hole leader, finished the rain-delayed third round Sunday morning only one shot behind and spent some five hours with his name atop the leaderboard in the final round.
And his birdie on the 18th -- one of only four birdies on the hardest hole at Sawgrass in the final round -- he hit 6-iron out of a divot to 18 feet and forced a playoff.
"It was the best putt I've had in an awful long time," Toms said.
Even so, it's hard to get past a pair of mistakes.
The first one came on the par-5 16th, when he had a one-shot lead over Choi and tried to reach the green in two. His approach found the water, and Toms wound up making bogey. This is the guy famous for laying up on the par-4 18th at Atlanta Athletic Club when he won his lone major 10 years ago at the PGA Championships.
Toms was trying to put pressure on Choi.
"I thought I could hit the shot," he said.
And then came the putt, when part of him already was thinking about going to the second playoff hole that decided the tournament. One consolation for Toms, along with knowing his game is close, is that he moved to No. 46 in the world and can avoid U.S. Open qualifying if he can stay there one more week.
Toms also finished with a 70, joining Choi in the playoff at 13-under 275.
So many other players felt they also squandered chances, none more than U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell and Nick Watney.
McDowell, who had a one-shot lead when the third round concluded Sunday morning because of rain delays, lost his way after an errant tee shot into the trees on the sixth hole. He hit four shots into the water the rest of the way and closed with a 79.
Watney was in control late in the third round until playing a three-hole stretch in 4-over par, then fell behind with consecutive bogeys at the turn in the final round and could never catch up.
Paul Goydos, who lost a playoff to Sergio Garcia in 2008 when the tour decided to make the 17th the first playoff hole, closed with a 69 to finish alone in third.
Luke Donald never got on track, but still managed a 71 for his seventh consecutive top 10. He tied for fourth with Watney (71) and moved to No. 2 in the world, giving England the top two spots in the world ranking.
Donald and McDowell wore an all-navy blue outfit in honor of Seve Ballesteros -- his famous Sunday colors -- who died last week.
Toms took a share of the lead on the second hole and never trailed until the finish.
It was a long day for both of them -- 32 holes for Toms, 27 holes for Choi, because of the rain-delayed third round that had to be completed Sunday morning.
One shot by McDowell, along with one wicked bounce, set the tone for the final round -- for him and those chasing him.
With consecutive birdies amid several collapses, McDowell suddenly had a three-shot lead as he closed out the third round. From the right rough on the 18th, his ball took a hard hop short of the green, caught the slope with some speed and didn't stop rolling until it tumbled over the edge and into the water. After a drop, he three-putted for double bogey to fall back to 12-under 204.
That one-shot lead didn't last long, and neither did McDowell.
He drilled a 50-foot birdie putt on No. 5 to catch Toms, then crumbled with a tee shot into the trees on No. 6, a tee shot into the water on No. 7 and a peculiar decision to try to blast out from squarely behind a plant on the ninth. He made bogey on all of them, then dropped another shot into the water on the 13th, 17th and 18th.
What makes the final three holes so dramatic is that anything can happen. No one could have expected it would end the way it did.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. -- In the toughest round ever on the
TPC at Sawgrass, Fred Funk found himself tied for the lead in The
Players Championship as he stood in the 16th fairway.
He had 234 yards to a green partially surrounded by water. A
glance to the right revealed an even scarier sight -- the
island-green 17th hole, buffeted by 35 mph gusts.
At age 48, Funk knew he was running out of time.
"I just felt like, 'How many chances do I have to win?' I was
letting The Players Championship go, and I didn't want to let it
go," Funk said. "I wanted to be aggressive and try to win [this]
thing."
He hit 3-iron into 20 feet for birdie, then atoned for some
putting lapses down the stretch Monday by saving par from a bunker
with a 5-footer on the 18th hole to become the oldest winner at The
Players Championship.
"It's the biggest win by far that I've ever had," Funk said.
"This is the strongest field that we play all year long. It's a
really hard golf course. I hung in there, barely. But it's an awful
good feeling."
Funk closed with a 1-under 71 in a final round where the average
score was 76.512, the highest in the history of this event.
It wasn't over until Luke Donald of England hit a 4-iron just
over the back of the 18th green, then saw his 20-foot birdie putt
stay just left of the cup for a 76.
Earlier, Scott Verplank slung his putter in disbelief when his
10-foot par putt on the 18th lipped out for a 70.
"I did everything I was supposed to do," Verplank said. "It
just didn't go in."
They finished one shot behind, along with Ryder Cup captain Tom
Lehman, whose 68 was the best score of a brutal final round.
Funk had reason to believe he didn't belong.
As he walked off the fifth tee just before the third and final
rain delay Sunday, he shook his head and said with a smile, "I
feel like a Volkswagen, like Herbie the Love Bug, in a field of
Ferraris," alluding to his lack of power.
But he kept it between the lines, and had just enough gas at the
end.
Funk finished at 9-under 279, the highest winning score on tour
this year, and won $1.44 million from the richest purse of the
year.
And he had the kind of trophy missing from his credentials.
Funk had won six times since leaving a gig as Maryland's golf
coach to join the PGA Tour in 1988, but none distinguished
themselves. Two were opposite-field events. Two others are no
longer on the schedule.
He mentioned Kenny Perry winning at Bay Hill and the Memorial,
or Lee Janzen with his two U.S. Opens.


"Those are the ones you remember," he said. "They have a
little prestige to them. Obviously, any major would fall into that
category, but there are certain tournaments that hold higher value
out there, and I didn't have any of those.
"Now, I've got one."
It wasn't easy.
The wind was the strongest since the tournament moved to the
Stadium Course at Sawgrass in 1982. It nearly blew flagsticks out
of the hole, swept sand from the bunker and caused limbs to drop
like leaves.
Funk made it harder with three-putt bogeys on consecutive holes
to lose a two-shot lead. And after the bold 3-iron on the 16th for
birdie, and hitting the island-green par 3 with a towering 7-iron
that wasn't safe until it landed, he lost his cushion with yet
another three-putt bogey.
But he made the only shot that mattered -- a 5-foot par putt that
was never in doubt.
"Yes!" Funk screamed out as the putt disappeared, giving a
quick thrust of his fist and slamming his cap to the ground.
It ended a memorable week at Sawgrass, the seventh Monday finish
in the 32-year history of the event, which started and ended in sunshine but
featured three days of rain in between that set up a marathon final
day.
Funk went 32 holes on Monday in conditions so difficult that 16
players failed to break 80.
"When you have to play that many holes in these tough
conditions on a golf course that messes with your head ... it's
definitely going to wear you down," Verplank said.
As for the Big Four? None finished in the top 10.
Vijay Singh was within four shots of the lead until he
three-putted from 8 feet for a double bogey on No. 15. He closed
with a 72 and tied for 12th, enough to retain his No. 1 ranking by
finishing ahead of Tiger Woods.
Woods tied for 53rd by shooting a 75. Phil Mickelson dropped out
of contention with two balls into the water on the 17th in morning,
and another one in the afternoon. He shot 75 and tied for 40th.
Ernie Els started his day with a double bogey and a triple bogey,
but closed with a 69 to tie for 17th.
Defending champion Adam Scott had a 73 to tie for eighth, four
shots behind.
Already bizarre because of the rain, The Players Championship
got downright wicked in sunshine. The most fearsome element of all
is the wind, and that showed up with a vengeance Monday morning.
As expected, some players paid dearly.
Bob Tway was only four shots out of the lead late in the third
round when he dumped four balls into the water on the island-green
17th and took a 12, the highest score ever on the infamous par 3.
Two of those shots from the drop area landed on the front of the
green and spun off.
Lee Westwood was only three shots out of the lead until playing
his final five holes of the third round in 8 over par, including a
quadruple-bogey 8 on the 17th.
Donald recovered from a double bogey on the 14th to take a
one-shot lead into the final round. He had only 15 minutes to grab
lunch, and his lead was gone even quicker than that.
The lead changed four times in the first four holes, and
everyone else strapped in and tried to survive. After five days,
The Players Championship finally resembled a major.
Funk needed even longer to show that he is a big-time player.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
BELLA VISTA, Argentina -- Final scores and earnings of the 2000 EMC World Cup on the 6,896-yard, par-72 Buenos Aires Golf Club course:
Tiger Woods/David Duval, USA, $1 million                  61-65-60-68--254  34-under
Angel Cabrera/Eduardo Romero, Argentina, $500,000         57-67-65-68--257  31-under
Carlos Daniel Franco/Esteban Isasi, Paraguay, $300,000    64-66-68-67--265  23-under
Shigeki Maruyama/Hidemichi Tanaka, Japan, $150,000        60-71-67-68--266  22-under
Paul Lawrie/Gary Orr, Scotland, $115,000                  64-69-65-70--268  20-under
Pierre Fulke/Mathias Gronberg, Sweden, $100,000           64-70-63-72--269  19-under
Frank Nobilo/Greg Turner, New Zealand, $80,000            57-67-65-80--269
Miguel Angel Jimenez/Jose Maria Olazabal, Spain, $80,000  63-69-67-71--270  18-under
Alex Cejka/Thomas Gogele, Germany, $80,000                62-69-66-73--270
Padraig Harrington/Paul McGinley, Ireland, $57,500        64-66-66-75--271  17-under
Mike Weir/Glen Hnatiuk, Canada, $57,500                   61-72-62-76--271
Retief Goosen/Darren Fichardt, South Africa, $45,000      65-72-66-69--272  16-under
Mark McNulty/Tony Johnstone, Zimbabwe, $45,000            62-72-67-71--272
Peter O'Malley/Lucas Parsons, Australia, $45,000          58-70-69-75--272
Phillip Price/Ian Woosnam, Wales, $39,000                 68-64-67-74--273  15-under
Jamie Spence/Brian Davis, Britain, $38,000                66-69-70-69--274  14-under
Chawalit Plaphol/Thammanoon Spiroj, Thailand, $36,500     63-70-66-78--277  11-under
Kwang-Soo Choi/Nam-Sin Park, South Korea, $36,500         61-72-66-79--278  10-under
Stephen Ames/Robert Ames, Trinidad & Tobago, $35,000      68-67-67-77--279  9-under
Jean Van de Velde/Thomas Levet, France, $34,000           62-72-70-76--280  8-under
Mikael Piltz/Kalle Vainola, Finland, $33,000              68-70-70-73--281  7-under
Jesus Amaya/Gustavo Mendoza, Colombia, $32,000            66-67-72-79--284  4-under
Danny Chia/Rashid Ishmail, Malaysia, $31,000              70-74-71-81--296  8-over
Miguel Martinez/Cipriano Castro, Venezuela, $30,000       67-81-68-84--300  12-over
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
RANCHO CUCAMONGA, Calif. -- James Oh became the youngest winner in Nationwide Tour history Sunday, beating Jess Daley in a playoff in the Mark Christopher Charity Classic.
Oh, who won with a birdie on the third extra hole, is 21 years, 5 months and 27 days. David Duval was the youngest previous winner, taking the 1993 Wichita Open at 21 years, 9 months.
Oh, also the 16th Monday qualifier to win on the tour, closed with an even-par 71 to match Daley (70) at 16-under 268 on the Empire Lakes Golf Club course. Oh earned $81,000 along with a tour exemption through the 2004 season.
"It's huge," Oh said. "It takes awhile to realize what you've done. Now I can stay in the States and play. I was going to play in Korea on the Asian Tour. I had my tickets and everything."
Chris Starkjohann (64) finished third, a stroke behind.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HARRISON, N.Y. -- Dr. Snowball might be making house calls next week at Shinnecock Hills if Fred Couples keeps playing like this.
After night and morning acupuncture sessions with Halina
Snowball in Greenwich, Conn., the 44-year-old Couples shot a
bogey-free 6-under 65 on Friday to take the second-round lead in
the Buick Classic.
"As soon as I left her office yesterday, I didn't have any pain
in my back," Couples said. "I don't get it, but I'm going to keep
trying it. To me, it's unbelievable what they can do."
Coming off a second-place finish last week in the Memorial,
Couples birdied the final two holes on the Westchester Country Club
course to take a one-stroke lead over Vijay Singh, Fredrik Jacobson
and young playing partner Luke Donald.
"I've kept the ball in play, which is the key here," said
Couples, who played with acupuncture pins in his ears.
Couples' wife, Thais, tried to talk him into withdrawing
Wednesday night to rest his back for the U.S. Open next week at
Shinnecock Hills.
"I snuck out of there Thursday when she was still sleeping,"
Couples said. "She's downtown with the kids now. She'll come home
and I'll tell her I'm leading the tournament and she's going to
have a heart attack."
Couples took advantage of Jacobson's double-bogey 7 on the par-5 ninth -- his last hole -- to top the leaderboard at 10 under.
Jacobson's tee shot struck a tree and bounced away from the tree line, but he failed to take advantage of the break when his 8-iron
third shot went into the thick rough to the right of the green.
After lobbing his fourth shot into an awkward position in the left
fringe, he chipped 5 feet past the hole and missed the bogey putt.
"It could have been a 9," the Swede said.
He finished with a 69, Donald had a 66 and Singh followed his opening 63 with a 70.
"I had a lot of half-shots today," said Singh, the 1993 and
1995 winner. "If you're between clubs, it's very hard to get
close."
Jacobson, a stroke behind Singh after a first-round 64, holed
out from 112 yards for eagle on the par-4 second hole to tie Singh
for the lead at 9 under. The Swede reached 10 under with an 8-foot
birdie putt on the par-5 fifth, and took a two-stroke lead with a
15-footer on the par-3 sixth.
"I still realize that I'm in position, where if I play well
tomorrow, I can win the tournament," he said.
Tom Byrum eagled the 18th for a 64 -- the best round of the day -- to finish at 7 under, and Padraig Harrington shot his second
straight 68 to join Billy Mayfair, Scott Hend, Tjaart Van der Walt
and Cameron Beckman at 6 under. Van der Walt, the last player to
get into the field, had a 65, and Mayfair, Hend and Beckman shot
68s.
Masters champion Phil Mickelson and two-time Buick Classic winner Ernie Els were 5 under. Mickelson had a 68, and Els -- the Memorial winner -- shot a 69.
"I think 5 under is within striking distance," Mickelson said.
Harrington put himself in contention for his first PGA Tour
victory.
"I really struggled with my swing, to be honest, but I worked
the ball around the golf course well," he said. "If
the U.S. Open wasn't next week, I would just work with what I've
got -- just put up with it and see what happens and hope it would go
away. But with the U.S. Open next week, I'm going to try and figure
it out."
Divots
Donald failed to qualify for the U.S. Open. "The U.S. Open is gone. I can't do anything about it," he said. ... Jacobson also had an eagle in his opening 64, holing a 60-foot putt on the par-5 fifth. ... Defending champion Jonathan Kaye was 3 under after rounds of 73 and 66. ... The cut was at 1 under. Mike Weir, Chad Campbell, Jesper Parnevik missed by a stroke, and Lee Janzen, Shigeki Maruyama, Darren Clarke and David Toms also dropped out after two rounds.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
POTOMAC, Md. -- The Australian with Greg Norman's coach and
Norman's old caddie felt a Norman-like collapse coming on.
No worries, mate. Adam Scott survived just fine.
After his lead was cut from seven strokes to two on the back
nine, Scott held off a challenge from Charles Howell III and took a
four-shot victory Sunday at the Booz Allen Classic.
"I was getting a little nervy there on the back nine," the
23-year-old Aussie said.
Scott closed with a 68 for a 21-under-par 263 total, tying the
tournament and TPC at Avenel course record set by Billy Andrade and
Jeff Sluman in 1991, when Andrade won in a playoff. Scott also
broke the 36-hole Avenel record Friday and tied the 54-hole mark
Saturday.
But Howell made it close, for a while. Trailing by seven shots
after six holes, he made five straight birdies starting at No. 11.
Meanwhile, Scott was in trouble when his tee shot at No. 13 landed
on a cart path.
Scott recovered to save par, followed with back-to-back birdies
and then saved another par with a tough 11-foot putt at the 16th to
avoid tying Norman and three others for the biggest final-day
collapse in PGA Tour history.
"It's nice to be able to respond to a little bit of pressure,"
said Scott, who started the day with a six-shot lead over Olin Browne.
"I also would have liked to have been out in front a lot
more all day. ... My putting really carried me to the last five
holes. That's how you win golf tournaments -- is with the putter."
Howell, who broke the 18-hole record with a 61 on Thursday,
finally faded when he three-putted the 17th and finished with a 65
for a 267 total. Defending champion Rory Sabbatini shot a 66 to
finish third with a 269, six strokes back.
"Starting as far back as I did today, it's nice to play golf
with nothing to lose," Howell said. "That's the mentality I had.
I knew it was going to take a great round for me and take a little
bit of help from Adam, and it looks like it got pretty darned close
there for a bit."
It is the third PGA Tour victory and seventh worldwide win for
Scott, who won the Players Championship in March. At No. 15 in the
world, Scott was by far the highest ranked player in the field, and
he clinically handled a course he had never seen until last
Tuesday.
The only players to lose after taking a six-stroke lead into the
final day on the PGA Tour are Bobby Cruickshank, Gay Brewer,
Hal Sutton and Scott's boyhood idol Norman, who had the infamous Sunday
meltdown to lose to Nick Faldo at the 1996 Masters.
Tony Navarro was carrying Norman's bag at Augusta that day, and
Butch Harmon was Norman's coach. Both now work with Scott, and
Navarro made a big call Sunday when he stopped Scott from pulling
the driver out of the bag at the short par-4 13th. Scott hit a
3-iron instead and birdied the hole.
"For a caddie to say that on the 14th hole on Sunday when you
have a two-shot lead is pretty big," Scott said. "But that's why
he's one of the best caddies out there."
Scott led Howell by seven after making a third straight birdie
at the fifth hole, but the gap started to narrow when Scott
overshot the green at the par-3 ninth and made bogey.
Howell then birdied Nos. 11-15 with putts of 9, 20, 13, 11 and
18 feet. Scott had the cart path adventure at No. 13, one of the
easiest holes on the course. After three failed drops, Scott placed
the ball on a slope and made a nice shot to the green -- but then he
three-putted for par.
Then came birdies at the 14th and 15th, putting Scott back in
command in what no doubt will be one of many duels between good
friends who are considered two of the best young players today.
"There's no question that Charles and I will be out there
playing against each other for a long time," Scott said. "It may
be the start of a bit of rivalry on the golf course, but we are
pretty good friends."
The record scores and relatively good weather over four days
made for an appropriate way to bid a temporary farewell to the
Avenel course. The tournament will be held at nearby Congressional
Country Club next year while Avenel gets an overhaul.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SOUTH HADLEY, Mass. -- In the 13 years since Meg Mallon
first won the U.S. Women's Open, she has collected enough baggage
to know that a lot can go wrong in the biggest tournament of the
year.
She spit up a three-shot lead to Annika Sorenstam in 1995. She
squandered a great chance four years ago in Chicago against Karrie
Webb by three-putting for bogey four times on the back nine.
This time, everything went right.
Mallon shot the greatest final round by a winner in the 59-year
history of the Women's Open, closing with a 6-under 65 on Sunday to
erase a three-shot deficit against Jennifer Rosales and leave
Sorenstam in hopeless pursuit.
Not even the best player in women's golf stood a chance at
Orchard Golf Club.
"I'm 41 years old, and you've got to enjoy your days, enjoy
when things like this happen," Mallon said. "I was going to go
out and have a fun time and play a great golf course and just do
the best I can. And it was all that.
"I'm incredibly proud that I have my name on that trophy
again."
Mallon finished at 10-under 274 for a two-shot victory over
Sorenstam. Her 16th career victory and fourth major title was worth
$560,000 from the richest purse in women's golf.
Even more valuable was the player she beat.
Sorenstam birdied the final two holes for a 67, and the cheers
resonating through the Orchards made Mallon realize she would have
to play hard to the very end.
"I did what I could do," Sorenstam said. "I got outplayed. I
don't know how many of you thought there would be a 65 in the last
few groups, but Meg proved us all wrong today."
Merely a bystander during so many great moments in women's golf
the last few years, Mallon finally celebrated one of her own.
She was the Forest Gump of women's golf, in every snapshot of
history.
Mallon played with Sorenstam when she shot 59, with Juli Inkster
when she won the LPGA Championship to get the career Grand Slam,
with Dottie Pepper when she had the lowest score under par at a
major, with Webb when she earned enough points for the Hall of
Fame.
This day belonged to her.
"It was a surreal moment," Mallon said.
She shared it with two sisters, two brothers, a nephew and a
record gallery at the Women's Open that treated Mallon like one of
their own.
Massachusetts-born, Mallon moved away as a child but still felt
a strong connection with the crowd -- except for the woman who
called out, "If the Red Sox can't do it, you can do it today."
"It's probably a good idea that I left at 11 months old,"
Mallon said.
It was similar to her '91 Open victory at Colonial, played in
such steamy weather that Mallon carried an umbrella to shade
herself. And just like Colonial, she rode an incredibly hot putter.
Mallon holed a 50-foot birdie putt on No. 4 to start closing in
on Rosales, and an 18-footer on No. 11 that curled in the right
side and gave her the lead for good. The biggest of all might have
been a 25-footer for par from just off the fringe that rattled the
pin at No. 15, giving her a cushion for the final three holes.
Mallon didn't make a bogey over the final 25 holes at Orchards.
The last of her 24 putts in the final round was a tap-in for par
that set off a wild celebration with her family.
"The cup looked like a bucket, and it was a great day for that
to happen," Mallon said.
The 13-year gap between Women's Open wins is the largest in
history.
And the final round was one for the ages, breaking by one shot
the previous best round by an Open champion, set by Juli Inkster
two years ago at Prairie Dunes.
Just like then, Sorenstam was the runner-up by two shots and
wondered what hit her.
"I did everything I could control," Sorenstam said. "I can't
control Meg. Sometimes, it's out of your hands and you have to
accept that and move on."
Kelly Robbins was the main challenger on the back nine until a
bogey on the 15th. Robbins, who lost in a three-way playoff last
year at Pumpkin Ridge, closed with a 69 and finished third.
Rosales made her first bogey at No. 7 and quickly fell apart.
Starting the final round with a three-shot lead, she closed with a
75 and finished fourth.
"I'm still in shock. Meg played awesome," Rosales said. "My
caddie and I were having a bet. She said, 'She'll make this one,
five bucks.' I said, 'You're on.' And then she makes it. She made
everything she looked at."
The teenagers never had a chance, but they put on a good show.
Michelle Wie, the 14-year-old sensation from Hawaii, had a 73
for her first round over par in a major this year. Paula Creamer, a
17-year-old with just as much game, shot 72. Both tied for 13th at
1-over 285, making them exempt for the Open next year at Cherry
Hills in Denver.
Mallon put on a sterling show on the greens, 10 times taking
only one putt -- including the clutch par on No. 15 that wasn't even
on the green. It was gaining speed when it hit the pin and dropped,
and Mallon was so stunned she held up the palm of her hands and cut
loose that infectious smile.
"What are you going to do?" Mallon said. "It's your day when
things like that happen."
No one saw it coming, least of all Rosales.
The high-strung Filipino came out firing, full of fiery emotion.
She ran up her approach to five feet on the opening hole and already
was warming up her fist-pump when the putt fell for birdie.
"Yeah!" she screamed as it dropped, as if it were championship
point at Wimbledon.
That quickly built her lead to four shots, and it looked as if
the final round might be a runaway.
It was -- but not for Rosales.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CHANDLER, Ariz. -- Chris Nallen completed a dominating
wire-to-wire victory in the Nationwide Tour's Gila River Classic on
Sunday, shooting a 1-under 71 for an eight-stroke victory over Troy
Matteson.
	   Nallen, the 22-year-old former University of Arizona star who
shot a 63 on Monday to earn a spot in his first Nationwide Tour
event, opened with a course-record 60 and added rounds of 66 and 67
en route to a 24-under 264 total.
	   He holed a 60-foot birdie chip on the final hole.
	   "It's awesome to finish that way and birdie the last hole,"
Nallen said. "I wanted to get it up there close and have a good
look at par. It was tracking the whole way, hit the pin and dropped
in. It was a great way to end."
	   Nallen, who earned $85,500 from the $475,000 purse, is the 17th
Monday qualifier to win in the 15-year history of the tour, the
10th player to win in his first career start and the 19th player to
lead from start to finish.
	   "It's pretty cool," Nallen said. "Everything went right this
week and that doesn't happen much. When it does, you just ride it
and enjoy it."
	   Matteson closed with a 70 on the Whirlwind Golf Club course.
	   Jason Schultz (70) was third at 15 under, and Matthew Jones (72)
and Kevin Stadler (76) tied for fourth at 13 under.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Ken "Hawk" Harrelson, erstwhile outfielder and journeyman professional
golfer, is now a Chicago White Sox broadcaster who does not require a
microphone to do play-by-play when the subject is golf.
"Eighteenth hole
at Shady Canyon," Harrelson says before a game recently at Angel Stadium
in Anaheim, Calif. "All you want from the tips. Wind at us, maybe 10
miles an hour. I hit a good one, probably 295. He steps up and knocks it
105 yards by me. We get to my ball, I take out my rangefinder and zap
his ball.
"A hundred-and-five yards," he says again, for emphasis.
For those scoring at home, that's a 400-yard tee shot into the wind, a
tape-measure job. "You can put it on the board ... YES," to quote
Harrelson's trademark home-run call.
The golfer was Mark McGwire, who once only swung at a slightly larger white ball, the man
who launched baseball's home-run revolution in the 1990s. Three years
removed from hitting the last of 583 career homers, McGwire is the
latest from the baseball world to pursue competitive golf, having taken
his first tentative steps in regional and national amateur events this
summer.
McGwire is 41 now, still a stalwart of a man, stronger than a two-club
wind, but with hands so gentle that his two toddlers are content to wile
away hours at home in them. He plays to a scratch handicap at Shady
Canyon GC in Irvine, Calif., his scoring buttressed by a tour-caliber
short game that allowed him to win the ADT Golf Skills Challenge last
year against a field that included Greg Norman, Colin Montgomerie and
Padraig Harrington.
Harrelson is effusive in his praise, believing McGwire can succeed at a
second act in another sport where so many have failed.
"I'd be surprised
if he didn't make it," says Harrelson, who is wowed by McGwire's blend
of power and touch.
It is a heady endorsement from a man who once delineated the fundamental
difference in the difficulty of the games: "In baseball you hit your
home run over the rightfield fence, the leftfield fence, the
centerfield fence," Harrelson said. "Nobody cares. In golf everything
has got to be right over second base."
Or, as Sam Snead famously told
Ted Williams as they argued about the same thing, "But you don't have to
go up in the stands and play your foul balls. I do."
There is that, as well as the fact golf usually rejects athletes from
other sports who audaciously regard their skills as transferable.
Michael Jordan once expressed an interest in playing the PGA Tour, as
though his ability to put the ball in the hole in one sport would allow
him to do so successfully in another. A golf course, as he has
discovered, plays better defense than they do in the NBA.
Basketball, at any rate, is inclined to produce more avid golfers than
accomplished ones. Stronger, more frequent efforts to cross over come
from baseball, for the apparent reason their own game ranks second (or
so it seems) among its constituents' favorite sports.
"People don't know this, but golf has always been my first love," says
McGwire, who was introduced to the sport when he was five years old and quit baseball
at Damien High School in La Verne, Calif., when he was a sophomore to
play on the golf team. He won one high school tournament but focused on
baseball his last two years of high school and in college before a
16-year career in the major leagues.
Ballplayers so readily will betray baseball for a round of golf that
managers, including the Yankees' Joe Torre, often forbid them from
bringing their clubs on the road. McGwire recalls team charters delayed
on the tarmac while as many as 15 sets of clubs were loaded onto the
plane.
Where there is passion, there is progeny. McGwire is the latest
offspring of baseball's golf lineage that began with (and ends with, the
cynic could argue) former Yankees outfielder Sam Byrd, who won six PGA
Tour events in the '40s and was runner-up to Byron Nelson in the 1945
PGA Championship, setting a standard that might be insurmountable.
Grantland Rice, the poet laureate of American sportswriting, once
proposed to Byrd a book on the differences between his golf swing and
his baseball swing. "It's going to be a darn short book, Granny," said
Byrd, who merely altered the plane to account for the ball being on the
ground and not in the air.  Renowned teaching pro Jimmy Ballard, who
later studied under Byrd at an Alabama driving range, says to imagine a
table top. "Sam just took that baseball swing and tilted the table to
hit a golf ball," Ballard says. "He used exactly the same swing, and the
club always went directly down the line. From flat and level to a tilted
plane. He never changed it."
Byrd's action, according to Ballard, was rooted in a lesson Byrd got
from a famous teammate. "Babe Ruth taught him to bat, to hold a towel
under his left armpit and to take batting practice by shifting to his
right leg, then to his left leg. The towel made his elbow stay down
going through the ball. It promoted a flat, level swing. Good hitters
will never let the lead arm separate and drop the towel."
This "connection" became a huge part of Ballard's teaching and was
adopted by other instructors and players. (World No. 1 Vijay Singh
often can be seen hitting practice balls with a towel or headcover
tucked under his left arm.) Unfortunately, says Ballard, "every baseball
player is told he's got to change his swing." And that makes a
successful transition to golf difficult.
"Babe Ruth wasn't a very good
golfer," Ballard says. "Sam could hit his 5-iron farther than Ruth hit
driver, and it drove him crazy. Ruth didn't use the same swing."
Ballard had a favorable first impression of Harrelson following the
latter's retirement from baseball in 1971. He saw a baseball swing that
functioned effectively on a golf course. "Then he went to some famous
teacher who changed his baseball swing, and he was not the same player,"
he says. Harrelson's PGA Tour experiment was filled with futility in
Monday qualifiers -- he did qualify for the 1972 British Open, missing
the 36-hole cut by one shot -- and lasted only 3½ years, a length
commensurate (relatively) with his temper. "I'd go out with 14 clubs and
come back with three," Harrelson says. "I was worse than Thunder [Tommy
Bolt]."
Efforts to reform his demeanor were derailed by a once reliable golf
swing that had become entangled in mechanical minutiae introduced by
well-meaning instructors with conflicting philosophies. He worked for a
time with Bob Toski. "He had me hitting the ball great," Harrelson says.
Then he encountered Jack Grout, Jack Nicklaus' instructor. "I started
talking to him, and I got confused, because their theories were
different. Then Nicklaus tried to help me. The next thing you know
you're caught in the middle. It's hard to tell someone, 'I love you, but
leave me alone.'
"The hardest thing Mark is going to have to do is [not] listen to
everybody," Harrelson says. "Because he's such a great guy, he's going
to have a lot of people coming up to give him a little tip, and the next
thing he knows he's tipped out."
McGwire apparently is comfortable enough with instructor Dennis Sheehy --
who also coaches tour pros Per-Ulrik Johansson, Stephen Ames, Neal
Lancaster and Phillip Price -- to dismiss Harrelson's concern as a
potential obstacle. A bigger problem is spotting the field 20 years. "It
doesn't take you 20 years to learn a good golf swing," says former
Yankees pitcher Ralph Terry, who played on the Champions Tour in the late
'80s and early '90s with modest success (one top-10). "The experience is
learning how the ball reacts out of different lies and different grasses
and different sand textures."
If only the bases were loaded. Golf is not so accommodating it will
allow an opportunity to erase so large a deficit with a single swing.
(Although a number of long-drive contest specialists, including Brian
Pavlet, Dan Boever and Pat Maloney, have college or minor league
baseball experience.) Former Philadelphia Phillies third baseman  Mike
Schmidt, Cincinnati Reds catcher Johnny Bench and Bobby Grich, a
six-time all-star second baseman with the California Angels and
Baltimore Orioles, are among those who have whiffed, each failing to
advance beyond stage one of Champions Tour qualifying.
Each of them constructed their reverie from the fragile 68 they
occasionally shot at home, only to discover that it had an aversion to
traveling, particularly when the rough was up and the competition was
keen. Each retreated to the security of the Celebrity Tour, where
they're better able to barter their stardom for a good time.
"A lot of guys can shoot par around their own golf course," says
51-year-old Rick Rhoden, the dominant player on the celebrity circuit
and a former pitcher who actually might have good enough stuff to make
it to the show. "Playing tournament golf is a little different. It's a
lot more difficult than they think it is."
Rhoden has at least caught the scent of success in his courtship of
tournament golf. What stinks, he might have concluded, is the maze
through which nonexempt players must navigate to reach the promised
land. Rhoden missed qualifying for the 2003 Champions Tour by a single
stroke. Then he threatened to win that tour's Allianz Championship in
2003, only to falter on the back nine of the final round to finish T-5.
McGwire's greatest asset ultimately might be the perspective he brings
to his quest, a byproduct of the power hitter's mindset. He is
consciously aware that he is more likely to go down swinging. He is
savvy enough about the game not to consider it the equivalent of a
hanging curve ball.
"I've got too many friends on tour, and I know how
difficult it is to be successful," he says. "I also know how difficult
it is to get there."
When McGwire gazed down the tee line on the range at this year's Western
Amateur, he could have been looking at Randy Johnson, Roger Clemens and
Curt Schilling. "To watch these kids, and to think that maybe one percent
will succeed on tour and the rest will all struggle," he says. "I was
flabbergasted at how great they were."
McGwire had rounds of 82 and 76, missing the first cut at the Western by
15 strokes. Earlier in the summer, in high winds, he shot a 75 in the
California State Amateur qualifying to miss by two strokes, and in a
qualifier for the prestigious Southern California Amateur he shot 75 and
missed by four. In other words, McGwire is closer to Cooperstown (two
years removed) than Harbour Town.
Moreover, he has played enough golf with tour players to know that,
unlike Jordan, he would sound foolish were he boldly to declare his
intention to play the PGA or Champions tours. He even declined a
sponsor's invitation to play in the 2004 John Deere Classic. "I'd love
to do it when I'm ready, but I knew I wasn't ready," he says. "I'm not
going to go out there just to go out there. I want to know mentally that
I'll be able to compete."
His intention in the interim is to increase his amateur tournament
participation to satisfy his competitive yearnings -- "That's the only
way you're going to know how good you are," he says -- while depending on
his progress (or lack thereof) to determine how aggressively to pursue
his passion.
There is work to do and two young children determined to keep him from
it. McGwire's compromise is to practice extensively in front of a
mirror, allowing him to get in his swings without grooving bad habits,
something he learned in baseball. He has identified the gap he most
needs to close to contend with better players. "The biggest thing is
shaping the ball," he says. "I can shape the ball, but I can't do it on
command like those guys can."
As for scoring, "I can get up and down
with the best of them, and my putting is pretty good, too."
McGwire, in sum, is ready to carry the banner for baseball's subset of
players who wonder whether their season is deliberately squeezed, more
or less, between Augusta National's spring closing and fall opening.
None are likely ever to play in the Masters, of course, but that won't
stop them from wondering whether they can compete with those who do.
Subscribe to:
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ATLANTA -- Nick Faldo and Paul Azinger haven't seen much of
each other since their spirited match in the '93 Ryder Cup ended in
a draw. They will be side-by-side this week at the Tour
Championship, starting their new roles as golf analysts for ABC
Sports.
The network will be the first to have a three-man booth in golf,
although Azinger and Faldo will only work together with host Mike
Tirico for about a half-dozen tournaments in 2005.
	   "Their personalities were so divergent," ABC golf producer
Mark Loomis said. "But they believed in what they said, and they
also listened to others. I thought the two of them together will be
terrific."
	   Faldo's dry sense of humor and Azinger's sharp wit were on
display during a news conference as ABC announced its talent lineup
for next year.
	   "I think the timing was good," said Faldo, a six-time major
champion. "I was frustrated with my golf the last couple of years.
I got mentally tired. So I thought if I'm mentally screwed up,
maybe I'll make a great announcer."
	   Azinger said he was looking forward to having a conversation
with Faldo.
	   "We haven't had a whole lot to say to each other in the last 20
years, so it's going to be fun getting to know Nick a little bit,"
Azinger said. "I know Nick does two things a little slower than I
do. One is probably hit a golf ball, and the other is fixing his
hair."
	   Both signed two-year contracts that coincide with the end of the
PGA Tour's television deal through 2006.
Ian Baker-Finch, who had been working in the booth after Curtis
Strange left in June, will be calling various holes during
tournament coverage. On-course analysts will include Judy Rankin,
Billy Ray Brown and Bob Rosburg.
	   Steve Melnyk will not return. ABC also used Hal Sutton this
year, but he is not returning in 2005.
	   It was a difficult decision for Azinger, 44, who has been
working on his game and has only one PGA Tour victory in the last
11 years (2000 Sony Open) since recovering from lymphoma.
	   "If I was playing great golf, I probably wouldn't be sitting
here," Azinger said. "But the 18th tower just doesn't come
available very often. There's only three of them on the major
networks."
	   Azinger also said ABC's schedule did not conflict too much with
his playing schedule. The only PGA Tour event he will miss because
of network duties is the Nissan Open at Riviera.
	   He finished 126th on the money list after a bogey-bogey finish
to miss the cut at Innisbrook. Azinger said he would not use a
one-time exemption from the career money list to keep his card, but
would rely on his status as a past champion to play about 15
tournaments a year.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
FACT: The Players Championship is referred to as the "fifth major," and ranks as the most prestigious event on the PGA Tour so far this season.
FICTION: The Players Championship is, in fact, the fifth major, on par with the likes of the Masters and U.S. Open.
OK, let's not go too far, but this week's event at TPC-Sawgrass is the most prestigious on the tour schedule this season. Herewith, some of the biggest issues surrounding the tournament.
• TPC-Sawgrass' 17th hole is the most exciting par-3 in golf.
Brian Wacker, assistant editor, GolfDigest.com: FICTION. It's not even the most exciting par-3 among TPCs. That honor goes to the 16th at TPC-Scottsdale, which is also the loudest par-3 in golf. When Tiger Woods holed out there in 1997, the place exploded like maybe like no other hole in golf before or since. But there are also several par-3s that are just better: No. 12 at Augusta, Nos. 7 and 17 at Pebble Beach, to name a few. Take nothing away from what Pete Dye did 25 years ago, but the novelty has worn off when other courses start duplicating your idea. Imitation might be the sincerest form of flattery, but that doesn't necessarily make for the most exciting hole in golf.
Bob Harig, contributor, ESPN.com: FACT. There is no drama anywhere quite like at this island green hole that ordinarily presents what appears to be a relatively easy shot, but has tour pros nervous before they even get to the tee. Winds can sometimes make it trickier, but it's mostly mental as a huge crowd of fans, who can see the hole from many vantage points, waits in anticipation for disaster. It is quite the scene.
Ron Sirak, executive editor, Golf World magazine: FICTION. No. 12 at Augusta National is the most exciting par-3 in golf. It comes in the middle of Amen Corner on the best back nine in golf and has the extra added attraction  and pressure  of being in The Masters. The island green is a gimmick. No. 12 at Augusta, with its tee shielded by trees from the wind, is a brilliant hole.
Jason Sobel, golf editor, ESPN.com: FICTION. Let's defer to Tiger Woods on this one. Earlier this week, he said, "It's all right. It's just more of a TV hole, more for you [media] guys than it is for us." Thanks, but we're not all that enamored with it, Tiger. The hole plays 137 yards to the middle of the green; if players are too intimidated by water to hit a simple wedge shot, well, that's not too exciting, either.
• The Players Championship should be moved to May.
Sobel: FACT. This should be an absolute slam dunk, no-brainer. It wouldn't even have any competition for the month  there's no other big golf tournament; baseball is settling into its second month; the NFL draft is over; the NBA is a long way from its finals; and the NHL is, um, whatever happened to the NHL? Pessimists say the course will be in worse shape in May, but realists know the TV ratings will be better.
Harig: FACT. The so-called "fifth major" gets lost in NCAA Tournament hoopla and the lead-up to The Masters, which is just two weeks away. The tournament would do better to separate itself some from the other majors, and May offers enough of a cushion between The Masters and the U.S. Open to achieve this goal. There are concerns about the TPC-Sawgrass' difficulty at that time of year, but so what? There is a void of big tournaments in May and this would give golf a top-notch event in five consecutive months.
Sirak: FACT. If the Players is moved to May, then the schedule would have The Masters in April, the Players in May, The U.S. Open in June, the British Open in July, the PGA Championship in August and either the Ryder Cup or Presidents Cup in September. For six months we would be constantly building toward the next major or major-like event.
Wacker: FACT. The only thing spicy about the tour schedule in May is the barbecue in Texas. Sure, Colonial and the Byron Nelson are nice events, but they are book-ended by the three-year-old Wachovia and the bland FedEx. Moving the Players to May would also give us a (near) major every month from April through August with The Masters in April, Players in May, U.S. Open in June, British Open in July and the PGA in August.
• The Players Championship should be made into a fifth major.
Harig: FICTION. There is no such thing. You don't touch five bases when you hit a Grand Slam home run, hence there should not be five major championships as part of golf's Grand Slam. The Players Championships has positioned itself quite nicely as the next-best tournament in golf, and that should be fine.
Sobel: FICTION. In the name of Gene Sarazen and Ben Hogan and all that is good and right with professional golf, let's hope this never happens. This would be the equivalent of a baseball team building a new stadium just to increase revenue for a season. Sure, it would bring more attention to the event, but it would also water down the importance of the four current majors.
Wacker: FICTION. Four majors is plenty. In fact, it's perfect. Four is a nice round number, it's always been four in golf and tennis (except for the five-major Champions Tour, which tells you all you need to know). Not to mention if golf went ahead and declared the Players a fifth major, it really would have to change some of the eligibility requirements for its field. To allow the top 125 players from the previous year's money list just isn't a strict enough standard for a major championship event.
Sirak: FICTION. Why? We have four majors. If they add a fifth major, then the discussion would begin about what the sixth major should be, and the seventh and the eighth. I can see the ad campaigns now: "Come to the B.C. Open  Golf's 36th Major." More is not always better. We have four majors. Let's just say the Players is the best of the non-majors and leave it at that.
Subscribe to:
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DUBLIN, Ohio -- Bart Bryant spent 20 years trying to prove
he belonged among the best, often laying awake at night wondering
if three surgeries and too many trips to Q School were a sign he
was wasting his time.
Winning the Texas Open last fall was the first step.
	   Validation came Sunday at the Memorial. Bryant somehow salvaged
par from inside a hazard on the edge of the creek on the 18th hole,
held off crowd-favorite Fred Couples by one shot and had an
audience with Jack Nicklaus, the tournament host who was duly
impressed with what he saw at Muirfield Village.
	   "To win against a quality field like this ... to walk off the
18th green and have Mr. Nicklaus waiting to shake your hand and
congratulate you is beyond comprehension at this point," Bryant
said.
Tiger Woods was stopped early with a double bogey on the eighth
hole, and he wound up tied for third with Bo Van Pelt and Jeff
Sluman. Woods needed to finish alone in third to replace Vijay
Singh at No. 1 in the world ranking.
	   Bryant emerged the winner on a steamy afternoon at Muirfield
Village, where the chase was so tight that 11 players were within
three shots of the lead when the final group made the turn, and no
one ever led by more than one shot.
	   It eventually became a duel, and Bryant didn't blinked.
	   The raucous cheers behind him as Couples surged into the lead
never rattled the 42-year-old Texan. Bryant stole the lead from
Couples, not to mention the show, with an approach into 5 feet for
birdie on the 17th.
	   The real drama came at the 18th, when his 3-wood took a hard
bounce and stopped inches from the water.
	   Playing it safe, Bryant took a penalty drop and lashed a 6-iron
into 15 feet, then holed the par putt for a 4-under 68. He sat
nervously in the scoring trailer waiting to see if his score would
stand, and Couples' last chance ended with an approach that sailed
over the green into deep rough.
	   "Bart deserved to win," Couples said after missing two putts
inside 10 feet over the final four holes. "I can't really kick
myself too hard. There are a lot of shots out there and there are a
lot of things I did to save shots, too. But overall, I just needed
one more putt."
	   Bryant was a forgotten figure among the four players tied for
the lead going into the final round. He didn't have one-fourth the
size of the gallery trailing Couples, one of the most endearing
players on the PGA Tour. Some fans even called him "Brad," his
older brother now on the Champions Tour.
	   But he was the only player among the top 30 who didn't make a
bogey on the back nine Sunday. As Couples sent the gallery into a
frenzy a collection of brilliant iron shots and key putts, Bryant
matched him stroke-for-stroke.
	   "There wasn't anybody who played better golf," Nicklaus said
with Bryant at his side. "Hole after hole after hole, Bart had a
chance to have something happen. You made the putt every time."
	   None was bigger than the last one, a slick putt that just curled
in the left side.
	   Bryant finished at 16-under 272 and won $990,000. Better yet,
his victory got him out of his Tuesday appointment for a 36-hole
U.S. Open qualifier. Bryant earned an exemption by winning twice on
the PGA Tour since last May, with the Memorial the cutoff for that
category.
	   It will be his first U.S. Open since 1994, and only his third
major.
	   He had injuries -- left rotator cuff in 1992, left elbow in 2000,
right elbow in 2002 -- that kept him away from golf for six months
at a time and dampened his hopes about making a living on tour.
	   Now, Bryant is even talking about spending more time with
Nicklaus, the U.S. captain at the Presidents Cup, in September. The
victory moved him to 15th in the standings.
	   "You're not far off," Nicklaus told him.
	   Woods made eight birdies, but the double bogey on the par-3
eighth slowed his momentum, and missing the 14th green with a wedge
to make bogey ended his hopes. He shot 68.
	   "I needed a couple more putts to go in and a couple less
mistakes," Woods said.
	   For Couples, it was a rare chance to win on tour, and he let it
slip away, despite some electrifying shots. The best was a 4-iron
that stopped 6 feet behind the flag on the par-5 15th for an eagle
putt that would have created a two-shot lead. He pushed the putt
and had to settle for birdie, then bogeyed the next hole from a
bunker.
	   "When you don't play much, your short game kills you," said
Couples, playing his first tournament since the Masters.
	   Bryant made it a two-shot swing with his birdie on the 17th, and
when Couples missed a 10-footer for birdie on the same hole, he was
one shot down on the 18th. His approach went into rough, and his
chip sailed 35 feet past the hole. Couples made that for par -- one
last cheer -- for a 69 and second place.
	   Bryant was thrilled to win the Texas Open last year, but he was
quick to point out that the best players were at the Ryder Cup this
week.
	   "This year was kind of about validation for myself," Bryant
said. "I don't think anybody else really cared one way or the
other, but for me, I needed to show myself that I belonged in the
winner's circle, and I could compete with Tiger Woods and Vijay
Singh and these guys."
	   He beat them all at Muirfield Village, then got an audience with
Nicklaus, perhaps the best of all time.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
RICHMOND, Va. -- Harry Watkey Easterly Jr., former president
of the U.S. Golf Association who also served as executive director,
has died. He was 82.
	   Easterly died Thursday of cancer, the Virginia State Golf
Association said in a statement.
	   After serving as president of the Virginia State Golf
Association from 1965-66, Easterly became an executive committee
member for the USGA in 1968 and served as president for two years,
1976-77. He was known for his attention to the rules of the game.
	   "He was a great friend of mine for 30 years and his
contributions to Virginia golf and the USGA will be remembered for
a long time," USGA president Fred Ridley said. "His is a strong
legacy, and we will miss him a great deal."
	   Ridley said he met Easterly at the 1975 U.S. Amateur, played on
Easterly's home course, the Country Club of Virginia in Richmond.
Easterly oversaw the course setup.
	   "We talked a lot about the difficulty of the course setup this
week at Pinehurst [for the U.S. Open] and other Opens," Ridley
said Friday at the U.S. Open.
	   "But I have to say that how Harry set up the Country Club of
Virginia, with 5-inch Bermuda rough, remains the toughest, thickest
USGA championship setup I've ever seen."
	   Easterly, a World War II veteran, was runner-up in the 1956
Virginia State Amateur. He was appointed senior executive director
of the USGA in December 1980 and served through January 1984.
	   Easterly is survived by his wife of 62 years, Mary; two sons,
Harry III and Frank; two daughters, Tighe Antrim and Natalie; 10
grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at 4 p.m. at St.
Stephen's Episcopal Church in Richmond. Burial will be private.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Michelle Wie will turn pro sometime between now and Oct. 11 -- her 16th birthday -- perhaps as early as next week. In doing so, she will become the world's highest-paid female golfer.
According to sources involved in the negotiations who requested anonymity, Wie will sign endorsement deals with three companies (one believed to be Nike) worth an estimated $8 million. Adding in tournament appearance fees and other endorsements, the Hawaiian teen's compensation for her first year as a pro is expected to reach $10 million -- not counting what she wins on the course. She also will enlist the services of the William Morris Agency to secure further commercial endorsements and guide her pro career, shunning traditional golf-management companies and suggesting her long-term aspirations may involve transcending the game as much as dominating it.
The sources say Wie's first professional tournament will be the LPGA's Samsung World Championship, which begins two days after her birthday at Bighorn GC in Palm Desert, Calif., an important factor in the timing of her decision to turn pro. A source says she wants to declare as soon as possible, in order to minimize any distractions in her pro debut. "[The announcement] will happen before the end of the month," says one source familiar with the Wies' thinking. "To do it at the tournament would be a bit unsettling."
Wie's alignment with William Morris formalizes a relationship that began seven or eight years ago, according to an insider, although the agency has no prior experience in representing pro golfers and has struggled in previous partnerships with athletes. By signing with a Beverly Hills, Calif.-based image machine known for its roots in the entertainment industry -- Clint Eastwood, John Travolta and Heidi Klum are among William Morris' more notable clients -- Wie continues to defy any conventional mold. Of course, such iconoclastic vitality has become one of the Hawaiian teenager's strongest marketing assets. It gave her a claim to brushfire fame after beating grown men in state competitions when she was 13 years old and has been handily cultivated since, mostly through three head-turning performances on the PGA Tour, a pair of top-five finishes in LPGA majors and her run to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Amateur Public Links Championship in July.
So here she comes: a 6-foot-1, Korean-American phenom with good looks, poise, serious length off the tee and a golf swing woven by the finest natural ingredients known to man. "You watch her against other women, the shots she has, it's no contest," says Jimmie Johnson, who spent 10 years caddieing for Nick Price and has worked several tournaments for Wie. "She knows how to play golf. I don't see any weaknesses in her game."
Add the oversized-dream quotient so common among those her age, her gender-blender capabilities and the constant patter of attention Wie seems to thrive on and it's no wonder the line of high-profile dealmakers stretched around the block before narrowing to three primary management-company suitors. No wonder Wie will sign an equipment/apparel contract with Nike worth about $5 million per year, according to knowledgeable sources (Nike officials did not respond to repeated requests for comment). No wonder William Morris hired a high-ranking executive away from the PGA Tour to navigate the blooming superstar around the trap doors of outrageous fortune.
"She will be the most recognized female athlete on the planet for the next 12 to 18 months," predicts Scott Seymour, vice president of Octagon, a firm whose own roster includes Mia Hamm, Anna Kournikova, Michael Phelps and John Elway. "Her marketability will never be higher than it is now. How much money she makes long-term will be determined by how well she plays."
Seymour's analysis offers a broad-canvas perspective on the most highly anticipated amateur-to-pro leap since Tiger Woods nine years ago. Wie's initial annual endorsement package is expected to be $8-10 million, at least $2.8 million more than any other female golfer, belying any talk that she is taking a risk by signing with William Morris. Although it still boasts one of the strongest client-celebrity lists in the business, the agency has lost tennis stars Pete Sampras and Andy Roddick in the last two years and recently was forced to deal with turbulence caused by the departures of actresses Halle Berry and Reese Witherspoon.
But William Morris had several positives in its portfolio that were presumably of interest to the Wies. Among the agency's six worldwide offices is one in Shanghai, providing contacts and expertise if (and when) Michelle tries to take on the Asian market. William Morris has a successful publishing division, one that is known for its book-to-screen deals. While Michelle has never publicly stated that she wants to be a celebrity, William Morris -- according to its sports-marketing mission statement -- "seeks to secure motion picture, television, commercial, licensing, broadcasting and sponsorship opportunities for sports clients wanting to expand and diversify their careers." (Most recently, William Morris helped another female sports client, Serena Williams, land roles in the movie "Beauty Shop" and the Showtime drama "Street Time.") Finally, William Morris counts the PGA Tour as one of its consulting clients, which may explain its most obvious course of action in the pursuit of Wie -- the recruitment of Ross Berlin, whose final day with the PGA Tour was Sept. 2.
A key lieutenant under commissioner Tim Finchem, Berlin's duties involved strengthening relationships with existing title sponsors, which patched up a weakness that surfaced in Camp Ponte Vedra in recent years. Asked about Wie's imminent signing and whether he has a working plan for his new client, Berlin responded, "I have no comment on that."
An agreement with golf novice William Morris probably was made easier because Wie's father, B.J., already had relationships with Nike and an Asian-based electronics company (probably Samsung) that will account for the bulk of Michelle's off-course income. "A lot of networking has gone on in the last two or three years," says swing coach David Leadbetter, whose tutorship has been a key to Wie's development. "It doesn't take a genius to consummate a deal at this stage. What's important is the follow-up." (If you're wondering about Michelle's amateur status, provided no deal is signed between a player and a management company and/or a potential sponsor while that player is still playing as an amateur, that player's amateur status is not violated. USGA executive director David Fay visited the Wies in Hawaii in 2004 and came away satisfied the family understood the rules and had committed no violations.)
Asked to elaborate on specifics involving his daughter's career direction, B.J. Wie told Golf World, "I will be unable to speak about any business-related matters until the completion of all deals." In addition to Nike and Samsung, those deals might possibly include one with an airline that would provide the Wies transportation to and from Hawaii while Michelle, a junior at the Punahou School in Honolulu, completes her education. "Michelle plans to graduate in 2007 and also plans to attend Stanford," B.J. Wie acknowledges.
William Morris, Octagon and IMG were said to be the finalists to represent Wie, each offering a different area of expertise in terms of client management: IMG the most experience and best connections within golf; Octagon the strongest bridge between pro sports and the corporate world; and William Morris the broadest opportunity outside of sports. Sources offer slightly different accounts of what B.J. wanted in terms of an agreement. At some point he realized -- through the advice of others or on his own -- that up-front, guaranteed money such as a "signing bonus" wasn't going to happen, at least from companies already representing star athletes and/or established pro golfers.
Because B.J. had done most of the legwork on the current deals, he asked the agencies to complete these contracts free of charge and accept a reduced commission on future agreements. IMG declined out of respect to its large roster of other golf clients, sources said, but William Morris, which tried unsuccessfully last year to sign LPGA star Natalie Gulbis, saw Wie as the type of high-profile, breakthrough talent worth a smaller return on its investment.
Although B.J.'s critics characterize him as a man with an inflexible business sense and a lack of long-term vision, there appears to be an end to his means. "He comes off as very meek and humble, but he's very tough in many respects," Leadbetter says. "He can get very animated at times." A longtime IMG client and perhaps the world's most recognizable golf instructor, Leadbetter says he offered gentle counsel to the Wies in regard to a management agency and doesn't sound surprised the family went in another direction. "There's more to it than writing up contracts," Leadbetter adds. "There's the business of servicing a player's needs all over the globe, and that can be very difficult. I told them IMG had tremendous experience in that area, but I wasn't adamant about it. They have their own agenda. They know what they want, and I think she'll be a success no matter who represents her."
Still, the issue of representation could not mean more than in the case of a teen prodigy with pronounced trailblazing tendencies. By all accounts, Wie has no intention of trying to play her way through the LPGA's Qualifying School this fall and is likely to suffice with six sponsor's exemptions on that tour in 2006. She cannot become an official member of the LPGA until she turns 18 (unless she petitions the tour for a special exemption), which, in Wie's case, would seem to have little effect on her competitive plans before then.
"That isn't a surprise," LPGA commissioner Carolyn Bivens says. "What I think is important for the LPGA is that Michelle can dream her dreams and pursue her dreams, and that she has options. Because she wants to do things a little differently, that's OK."
Wie also will accept invitations to men's events as the opportunity arises. Her first such chance is likely to be the Casio World Open in November, a regular stop on the Japan PGA Tour in which Wie will receive an appearance fee. Sources say Wie was invited to participate in the Skins Game, the popular ABC event held during Thanksgiving weekend, but declined because of its conflicting dates with the Casio.
There are a number of reasons why Wie could establish a major presence in the Far East. More than her ancestry or Hawaii's relative proximity, Japan's thriving golf economy has an unusual twist: Women's pro events regularly earn higher TV ratings than the men's. "The money coming out of Asia is unbelievable," Seymour says. "With Michelle's background and ethnicity, it's a wide-open frontier."
This landscape is sure to include the opportunity for substantial appearance fees, but it also provides Wie a more level field in terms of competing against men. The quality of play in the Far East isn't nearly as strong as that of the PGA Tour, meaning Wie can make big-league money while honing her skills in something akin to a minor-league setting.
That doesn't mean she won't command interest from any number of tournament directors in America -- Wie can accept up to seven such invitations on the PGA Tour. Her value to smaller events spiked in a positive direction after July's John Deere Classic, where Wie missed the cut by two strokes but took the Friday telecast well past its slotted airtime -- NBC Universal transferred live coverage from USA Network to CNBC as she attempted to qualify for the weekend. "What 15-year-old athlete changes television schedules?" Seymour says. "Not only that, but in the pro-am [draft], they're picking Michelle Wie over top [male] golfers in the field. That's a pretty big statement -- some of the guys [who play in pro-ams] are running international companies."
Such impact comes at a time when there is serious talk of schedule contraction on the PGA Tour, making Wie even more appealing to tournaments that might be on the endangered-species list. From a grass-roots standpoint (ticket sales, concessions, merchandise), Wie can move the needle like a Phil Mickelson or John Daly, and she generates more buzz than a nest of hornets. "When I go around town today, people are still talking about it," says John Deere tournament director Clair Peterson. "A lot of people came to our event who never would have otherwise."
If there is an issue that has dogged Wie throughout her ventures into the cross-gender arena, it is her lack of so-called credentials to compete at such a level. Her only triumph of renown came at the 2003 U.S. Women's Amateur Public Links Championship, leading some to believe that the longer she goes without a victory, the less valuable her marketability becomes. "What Michelle needs to do is win," Bivens says. "I hope she puts herself in enough situations to do that. The newness can wear off. She is incredibly talented. I think winning should be one of Michelle's [top priorities] in the next two years or so."
Leadbetter, meanwhile, sees a work in progress: a teenager of superstar potential whose runner-up finish at the second LPGA major of 2005, the McDonald's LPGA Championship, is a harbinger, not a noose. "If you beat 148 other women, is that not winning?" Leadbetter says. "Just because you don't shoot the lowest score doesn't mean you haven't beaten an awful lot of people."
John Hawkins is a senior writer for Golf World
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ATLANTA -- Mike McCullough won the Georgia-Pacific Grand
Champions Championship on Friday, shooting a bogey-free 7-under 65
for a two-stroke victory over Bruce Summerhays in the unofficial
Champions Tour event for players 60 and over.
	   "I didn't hit a lot of good shots today, but I continued to
persevere and mentally stay in the game," the 60-year-old
McCullough. "I kept everything in control and didn't get ahead of
myself. It's pretty special to win a tournament like this."
	   McCullough had an 11-under 133 total on the Hawks Ridge Golf
Club. He earned $85,000 from the $400,000 purse.
	   Summerhays finished with a 70. Tom Wargo (63), Raymond Floyd
(69) and John Jacobs (69) tied for third at 8 under.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MIKI, Japan -- LPGA rookie Paula Creamer birdied the first
playoff hole Sunday to win the Masters GC Ladies for her second
Japan tour title this year.
The 19-year-old Californian closed with a par-72 to tie Japan's
Chieko Amanuma at 4-under 212 after 54 holes. Creamer then sank an
8-foot birdie putt on the par-4 18th after Amanuma missed a 15-foot
birdie putt.
"I was so nervous I was shaking watching her," said Creamer,
who has four career titles, including the NEC Karuizawa in Japan in
August. "She had a decent putt and I knew I had to make mine."
Japan's Ai Miyazato, winner of the Japan Women's Open, shot a 74
to finish at 218.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MESQUITE, Nev. -- Sean Fister of Little Rock won the world
long drive championship Saturday with a distance of 377 yards, 3½
inches.
	   Fister won $100,000 for his shot. Runner-up Danny Luirette of
Scottsdale, Ariz., won $40,000 with a distance of 369 yards, 26½
inches.
	   Stacey Shinnick of Encino, Calif., was the women's winner with a
drive of over 311 yards. Gerry James of Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.,
had a drive of more than 366 yards to win the seniors title, and
Steve Griffith of Hamilton, Ohio, won the super seniors division
with a shot of over 320 yards.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MOBILE, Ala. -- U.S. Solheim Cup star Christina Kim won her second career title Sunday, closing with a 5-under 67 for a one-stroke victory over Australia's Rachel Hetherington in the Mitchell Company LPGA Tournament of Champions.
Kim two-putted from 80 feet on the final hole, tapping in for par after Hetherington missed a 20-foot birdie attempt. The 21-year-old Kim then celebrated with a hug from father-caddie Man Kim and a beer shower from fellow player Jennifer Rosales.
"I have been struggling since the Solheim and to know that I could come out there and be a champion of champions, it's an incredible feeling," Kim said. "All of the girls here know how to win and to win this event is just unbelievable."
Kim finished with a 15-under 273 total on the Magnolia Grove Golf Club's Crossings Course and earned $138,000. She also won the 2004 Longs Drugs Challenge.
Hetherington shot a 68 en route to the eighth runner-up finish of her career. She won the last of her eight LPGA Tour titles in 2003.
Sweden's Liselotte Neumann, the 1996 winner, closed with a 71 to finish third at 12 under. Hall of Famer Juli Inkster (69) followed at 11 under.
Neumann, who started the final round with a one-shot edge, made a 7-foot eagle putt on the fourth hole and took a two-stroke advantage into the back nine. But Kim birdied Nos. 11 and 12 to gain a share of the lead.
Neumann handed the lead to Kim when she hit her tee shot into the right trees on the par-5 13th hole and ended up making a double bogey.
Hetherington, paired with Kim in the next-to-last group, birdied the 14th to get within one stroke of Kim. Kim answered with a two-putt birdie at the par-5 16th before Hetherington closed within one again with a 15-foot, sidehill birdie putt on 17.
Kim was left with the 8-foot putt on No. 18 after her approach shot failed to get to the back shelf of the green and rolled down a ridge.
"There was a little bit of wind into my face than I realized," Kim said. "I hit a good shot. I just didn't have enough club. I got to my putt and couldn't see the hole over the ridge. I hit a great putt up there, but it was torture having to sit there and watch Rachel putt. I told myself that if there was anyone who could make a birdie on me, it was Rachel. It was heart-stopping watching her putt go so close to the hole."
Hetherington's birdie putt broke away on the right side.
"I thought it was a straighter putt," Hetherington said. "I knew I had to make it and I played it just outside the left edge and it broke away pretty early. I'm a little disappointed. I would have liked to have won, but it's nice to finish well and remind
myself how it felt when I was playing well."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
VILAMOURA, Portugal -- Stephen Dodd and Bradley Dredge of
Wales won the World Cup of golf after Sunday's final round was
called off amid heavy rain and gusting winds.
Dodd and Dredge shot 11-under 61 Saturday in better ball for a
two-stroke lead over Sweden and defending champion England after 54
holes at the Victoria Clube de Golfe on Portugal's southern Algarve
coast. They shot 61-67-61 for a 27-under 189.
"It would have been nice to play 72, but at the end of day a
win is a win whether it's 54 or not," Dodd said. "We obviously
played the best golf up until now."
David Howell and Luke Donald of England and the Swedish team of
Henrik Stenson and Niclas Fasth finished tied for second after
rounds of 63 on Saturday.
The Welsh pair earned $700,000 each, more than double their
winnings in any other event. It marked Wales' second victory at the
World Cup, the first since Ian Woosnam led the team in 1987.
Raphael Jacquelin and Thomas Levet of France finished fourth and
Denmark was fifth. Americans Zach Johnson and Stewart Cink had a 67
to tie for 17th with Australia and Mexico.
Before this year, the 39-year-old Dodd had gone winless in 15
years on the European tour. Sunday's win was his third of the
season, along with the China and Irish Opens.
"Things have definitely changed in the last year," he said.
"The reasons why I'm not sure, but I must be doing something
slightly different."
Saturday's third round was plagued by showers and the rain
continued overnight, accompanied by high winds that blew over a
scoreboard on the course and damaged television transmission
towers.
Wind gusts on Sunday reached 70 mph, with the storms expected to
continue through Monday.
Though the World Cup is a stroke-play event, rounds were played
alternating between the match-play format of fourballs (better
ball) and foursomes (alternate shot).
The event completes the World Golf Championships season.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
WINTER GARDEN, Fla. -- Pressure is easy to define. It's not so easy to live. That's the PGA Tour Qualifying tournament, where as many as 135 hopes and dreams will be dashed over the next six days at Orange County National. Not that you"ll find an ounce of negativity around the place (at least not yet, anyway), but that"s 165 players vying for 30 spots (plus ties) spread out over two courses and six knee-knocking, nail-biting, stomach-churning, rubber-legged days.
Just ask Boo Weekley. He missed by two strokes two years ago here by failing to convert two birdie chances on his 88th and 89th holes before making a bogey on the last hole.
"The pressure is on you to play well so you can support your family," said Weekley. "You just can"t describe it." (He will though in a daily diary, along with Notah Begay III and Bill Haas, this week).
Just ask Tim O"Neal, who missed out on his tour card by a single stroke ... twice ... missing nearly identical putts on the last hole in back-to-back years.
Just ask Joe Daley. You think you have it rough because you got passed over for that last promotion? This guy rolled in a five-footer during the fourth round of the 2000 tournament only to watch it pop out of the off-center cup and back onto the putting surface. He missed his card that year by a single stroke and hasn"t been seen here since.
"The pressure increases exponentially," says Gio Valiante, a professor at Rollins College and sports psychologist who has worked with Chris DiMarco, Justin Leonard, Chad Campbell and others. "What people don"t talk about though is the fatigue and distraction."
Six days of non-stop golf might sound like paradise to the rest of the world, but it can be hell when it determines where you"ll be working next year.
Try controlling your emotions after experiences like any of these guys. There is no opponent to tackle or basketball to dunk in golf. When it comes to golf, everything"s internalized.
"They"re so geared up that when they were pouring gravy over their mashed potatoes on Thanksgiving they were thinking about this week," said Valiante, whose job it is over the next six days to keep Begay and Franklin Langham in the right frame of mind.
Golfers are creatures of habit as much as any football or basketball player, but the difference is they operate optimally in calmer waters. They need to do things with the same cadence, Valiente says. To help them do that Valiente will use progressive muscle relaxation, literally slowing down everything they do physically. "If I see someone walk quick and swing quick, I know it"s going to be a bad day for them," he said.
Of course, you could be in the right frame of mind, have the right swing and have one of the best swing coaches in the world, and it still might not matter.
"I watched Tiger Woods hit balls at Isleworth before the PGA Championship and thought he would win by a dozen strokes," Valiante said. "But the fact is it doesn"t matter until you put the tee in the ground."
That tee, along with a lot of dreams, goes in the ground Wednesday.
Brian Wacker is an assistant editor for GolfDigest.com
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii -- Stuart Appleby thought he was cruising to
a third straight victory in the Mercedes Championships when a
glance at the leaderboard behind the 15th green Sunday gave him
quite a shock.
There was Vijay Singh, one shot ahead with the kind of round no
one thought possible at wind-blown Kapalua.
"I had no clue how he did that," Appleby said. "I said to
myself, 'I can't lose this tournament.'"
He had to work extra hard to join some elite company, making two
birdies on the last four holes to force a playoff, then beating
Singh on the first extra hole with a bunker shot from behind the
green that tickled the rim of the cup and left him a 2-foot putt,
the most nervous he felt all day.
Singh, whose 7-under 66 was nine shots better than the average
score in the final round, left a 100-foot putt about 9 feet short
on the par-5 18th in a playoff, then missed the birdie putt to the
right. Appleby holed his putt to join Gene Littler (1955-57) as the
only players to capture this winners-only tournament three straight
years.
"This one was the hardest," said Appleby, who went from a
two-shot lead to a two-shot deficit before forcing extra holes.
"Obviously, I had to win a playoff against Vijay. He was the
hottest player by far."
Appleby became the 15th player in PGA Tour history to win the
same event three straight years, and the first since Tiger Woods
won the Bay Hill Invitational four straight times starting in 2000.
It was only the third playoff at Kapalua, but the finish was
familiar -- Appleby with a lei around his neck, the keys to a
Mercedes-Benz and another great start to the season. He held up
three fingers when he accepted his trophy, then held out his thumb
and pinkie, Hawaii's sign that everything is cool.
Singh would not come to the media center for comment.
Appleby won the previous two years by one shot, and both times
it came down to the final hole, so it's not as though he breezes
his way to victory. But the pressure was on after Singh birdied the
16th hole to take a two-shot lead, then recovered from a bogey on
the 17th with a simple chip to a foot for birdie on the 18th.
"I had to do something special coming in. I didn't do it, so I
had to do it in the playoff," Appleby said. "Winning the Mercedes
is awesome. Winning three times is a dream come true."
Both players finished at 8-under 284, the highest score to win
in the eight years the season-opening tournament has been played on
the Plantation course at Kapalua.
The Mercedes Championships was missing some of the stars this
year as Woods, Phil Mickelson, Retief Goosen and Padraig Harrington
all stayed home. Singh and Appleby delivered a sterling show.
Not many imagined Singh would be part of a playoff, starting the
final round five shots behind. It was only the second round in the
60s all week, the other one a 69 by Olin Browne in the first round
when the wind was but a breeze.
All that remained was to see if Appleby could match him.
It wasn't easy for the 34-year-old Australian. Trailing by one
shot, Appleby's sand wedge to the 16th landed beyond the green and
wound up back in the fairway, the product of too much spin and
grain. His chip went 6 feet by, and he made a difficult par putt to
keep his hopes alive.
After missing a 15-footer on the 17th, he needed birdie on the
18th to force a playoff. His approach was just short, but he played
his 150-foot chip perfectly, and it rolled within 4 feet for a 71
and extra holes.
Appleby won for the seventh time on the PGA Tour, earning $1.08
million and adding to his collection of Mercedes-Benz sports cars
that go to the winner.
Jim Furyk shot 72 all four days and joined Appleby as the only
players to break par each round on a Plantation course that never
played tougher. Furyk was at 4-under 288 to finish third.
U.S. Open champion Michael Campbell, in a three-way tie for the
lead with seven holes to play, lost his tee shot at No. 12 in the
knee-high native grasses and shot 41 on the back nine for a 75 to
tie for fourth at 2 under with Vaughn Taylor, who closed with a 71.
Lucas Glover was the only other player under par, but he had to
birdie three of the last four holes to get to 1-under 291.
Appleby made a 70-foot eagle putt from just off the fifth green
to reach 8 under and build a two-shot lead. But when he missed a
4-foot par putt on the 11th, there was a three-way tie with
Campbell and Singh.
Campbell fell out of the race quickly, losing his tee shot in
knee-high native grasses on the 12th hole to make double bogey and
start his slide. Appleby three-putted for bogey on No. 13, losing
the lead for the first time since Friday.
Singh was surging, and he chipped nicely to 4 feet for birdie on
the 15th, then hit a sand wedge that stopped 3 feet behind the cup
for a birdie on the 16th that gave him a two-shot lead.
"I played well all week, I just made a few mistakes each day,"
Singh told ESPN before the playoff. "Today, I said I was going out
there and be a little more aggressive, take on the golf course and
hit it like I can."
But the Fijian must wonder what it takes to win at Kapalua. It
was his fifth straight year in the top five.
Game Notes
All but five players -- Campbell, Sergio Garcia, Ben Crane,
Justin Leonard, Geoff Ogilvy and Ted Purdy -- from the 28-man field
will play next week in the Sony Open ... Jason Gore made a par on
the final hole to shoot 79, the first time all week he broke 80. He
still finished last at 28-over 320, 36 shots out of the lead. ...
Half of the field went the entire week without breaking par.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Deliberate and cautious as a golfer, Jim Simons was known for his precision, as someone who enjoyed peppering the 100-yard flag on a practice range more than hitting tee shots toward its distant end. "Jim could really get the job done," says Ben Crenshaw. "He could pick a course apart." But Simons' exacting style, which very nearly earned him the 1971 U.S. Open title at Merion in Ardmore, Pa., when he was a 21-year-old amateur and resulted in three victories on the PGA Tour, belied the fact that he was a man of extremes.
"[He believed] if two aspirin were good for you, let's take four," says Jesse Haddock, Simons' golf coach at Wake Forest and his former father-in-law. "He was that way."
In college, Simons traveled with a satchel full of vitamins and supplements. "He took vitamins back before we knew what vitamins were," says Lanny Wadkins, a Wake Forest teammate. "He was always big on what could do you some good." He was one of the earliest pros to try metal woods, and his win at the 1982 Bing Crosby National Pro-Am helped popularize the clubs. Later on, Simons put his faith in exotic contraptions that he hoped would improve his fitness, balance or vision, such as getting in a "spinning chair" that twirled at hundreds of revolutions per minute and then immediately trying to focus on an eye chart. "To me it was just nuts," says his close friend Gerry James, a golf and fitness instructor. "I tried it and got dizzy and almost puked. But he was always a seeker on how to get better."
At his house in southeast Jacksonville, Simons also had a "gyro gym," an apparatus that spins a person up and down and all around, something an astronaut might use training for space flights. He even owned a hyperbaric oxygen chamber that one would more likely find at a medical or sports-training facility.
But Simons' favorite thing, according to friends and relatives, was his custom outdoor hot tub, which he equipped with jets powerful enough to bruise and filled with water as hot as he could stand, 105 degrees. A longtime night owl who often didn't go to sleep until 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning, he loved to soak in the wee hours looking for relief from the discomfort of fibromyalgia -- a chronic condition characterized by fatigue, muscle pain and tender points -- and a body banged up by a lifetime as a professional golfer.
"He had that hot tub put in special," says Simons' 81-year-old father, Ralph. "I guess it helped the pain. He wasn't one to tell you his problems. He went to all kinds of doctors and tried everything over the years, and all of them were going to get him well -- but none of them did."
In the early morning hours of Thursday, Dec. 8, 2005, Simons, 55, twice divorced and the father of three sons, followed a familiar routine. First, he e-mailed friends. At 1:30 a.m. he sent a message to James, whom he had met three years ago on the practice range at the TPC at Sawgrass. It was characterized as "a real positive e-mail" by James, who says it included a photograph of Jesus from the movie "The Passion of the Christ" that was indicative of Simons' recently renewed faith. "Jim recommitted his life to Christ about nine months ago," says another friend, Ernie Vadersen. "He came to Christ one night about 8 o'clock in the parking lot at the TPC."
Simons was a regular at Sawgrass. He went there four or five days a week to hit balls or play, often working with James and Vadersen, a golf club designer who developed the Snake Eyes wedges in the 1990s. Even though any realistic chance to sharpen his game enough to perform on the Champions Tour probably had passed -- he didn't break par in six appearances from 2002-2004 -- the light-hitting Simons had picked up more than 20 yards with his driver in the last year, according to Vadersen. He still enjoyed practicing, and if someone asked for help with his swing, Simons was eager to assist and would patiently make his point several different ways if needed.
Friendly, talkative and a big tipper to the TPC employees, Simons sometimes would help the range staff pick up balls. They might well have hoped to see him that Thursday, but a light rain fell throughout the day, so his absence would have been unremarkable. His phone went unanswered. He did not show up as expected early that evening for a small group meeting of men from the Southpoint Community Church, which had become a focal point in his life.
Concerned about his friend's absence, Vadersen went to Simons' house that night to check on him and discovered his body in the hot tub. Shortly after e-mailing James, Simons apparently had gone alone to soak in his hot tub like so many nights before, and he died there at approximately 2 a.m. The Jacksonville medical examiner's office ruled it an accidental death caused by "multiple drug toxicity."
A complete report is pending, but James says Simons, who had gone to rehabilitation for alcohol and prescription drug abuse a decade ago, "was hooked on painkillers really bad," including OxyContin and Ultram. "When he went into his hot tub, I think the combination of him taking all the drugs with the hot water, probably seized his heart."
"He had some prescription medicines," says Ralph Simons. "There were no illegal drugs involved at all. It was a bad combination I guess, the medicines and the hot tub. That's a no-no. He had a tendency to do everything to extremes."
Ralph Simons learned early of his son's tenacity. Jim, in fact, had been an overachiever from childhood; when he was 3 years old, his father took him to Butler (Pa.) Country Club. Ralph gave Jim his adult-length 3-iron and told him to choke down, try to keep pace and pick up when he got to the green. The elder Simons didn't know how long Jim would keep swinging, but a couple of hours later, the little boy with the strawberry blond hair and broad, toothy smile was making his way up the last hole.
"He was a hole behind us, but he played the whole 18," Ralph remembers. "I couldn't believe he could hit the ball that far, that many times."
Ralph Simons and his wife, Orpah, had a 130-acre farm about 35 miles north of Pittsburgh, but didn't farm for a living. A Carnegie Mellon Tech graduate, Ralph was a successful businessman, having invented, with a colleague, the first electric commercial deodorizer. Jim had a steer of his own to look after and an egg route with his sisters, but from that first day at the country club, he developed a hunger for golf that his dad was eager to cultivate.
"I didn't have much problem with his behavior," says Ralph, "but I'd punish him by not letting him play golf. That was the most effective punishment." Ralph was health-conscious, and Jim once confided to a friend that he played poorly at a junior event in Hershey, Pa., because he was tortured by the air's scent. "He had never had candy, and if you're in Hershey, you can smell the sweetness," the friend recalls. "He said it was the worst tournament he played because he could smell that chocolate and wanted it so badly."
Jim got good at golf quickly. He routed the competition in tough conditions to win the 1966 Pennsylvania state high school championship as a sophomore. In 1967, when the event conflicted with U.S. Open qualifying after a rainout, Simons chose the latter. "There were seven spots," recalls Ralph. "He tied with seven people for the seventh spot and won [the playoff] on the fifth extra hole." When the crew-cut 17-year-old teed off at Baltusrol GC (he shot 86-79), he was the second youngest player -- after 16-year-old Mason Rudolph in 1950 -- to play in the event.
And his talent was just starting to blossom. He qualified again for the 1968 U.S. Open at Oak Hill, where he made the cut and got a fourth-round pairing with Arnold Palmer. Simons went off to the University of Houston that fall, but became disenchanted with the golf-factory feel. He transferred after one year to play for Haddock at Wake Forest, where the team was equally strong and the atmosphere more diverse. Simons began dating Sherry Turner, a Meredith College student and his coach's stepdaughter, whom he would marry in 1973, the year after he turned pro. Simons roomed for three years in the Davis dormitory with Bob Hook, a Demon Deacons basketball player from Louisville, and loved being a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity, whose smooth chapter-room carpet was marked by a hole Simons had gouged out with his wedge so he could practice his putting.
"We had fun," said Hook, now a Kentucky car dealer. "We'd try to hit the library bell from in front of the house. Jim was the only one who could do it. It was about a 4-iron for him. I'm not sure where the rest of our balls went -- we hit cars and windows. Fortunately, we didn't kill anybody."
Many of Simons' more serious swings were taken in the company of Wadkins, who was as fast as Jim was slow. "I think playing with him all those years is probably what helped me tolerate all the slow play on tour," Wadkins says. "I used to throw stuff at him when he was over putts. I'd fall in his line." (None of Wadkins' tactics had much effect. Simons was one of the slowest players on tour since Cary Middlecoff. When the tour cracked down on dawdlers in the late 1970s, Simons began walking briskly outside the ropes with the gallery between shots before his partners hit so he could still have enough time when he got to his ball.) But their disparate pace of play didn't keep them from becoming fast friends. "I lived off him," says Wadkins, recalling their daily matches. "I had no money; Jim's dad had some money. We'd play a dollar or two-dollar nassau a day. If I won six bucks off Jim, that was a burger at McDonald's and dinner on the way home from Henny Penny chicken."
Although Wadkins consistently got his meal money from Simons, the outcome was different when the two hotshots, who traveled the summer circuit together in Simons' Volkswagen Beetle, met in the first round of the 1970 Trans-Mississippi Amateur. "He was my pigeon for a while, but the one time the match meant something, he beat me 1 up," Wadkins remembers. "He was the ultimate grinder, no question."
All-out was all Simons knew. As he once explained to Golf Digest: "You take what God gives you -- hey, an eagle seeing a mouse from 200 yards, only God gives that -- and try to improve on it. It's criminal not to."
But Simons could speak of keen vision only as a wishful hypothetical, because from elementary school he was saddled with terrible eyesight -- 10 diopters nearsighted in both eyes, about three times worse than most nearsighted individuals. His glasses were as thick as a beer mug and didn't offer a crisp view. His contacts -- he tried dozens of models -- gave him better vision, but bounced out of position when he blinked and could be nightmarish in the wind or during pollen season.
"He fought his contacts all the time," recalls Logan Jackson, another Wake Forest teammate. "His contacts hurt him so bad, I can't believe he wore them. Nobody else would have worn them if they hurt that bad, but he felt he could see better with them than [with] glasses."
When Simons shot a third-round 65 while paired with Lee Trevino to take a two-stroke lead in the '71 U.S. Open, he was in position to become the first amateur since Johnny Goodman in 1933 to win the title. With three holes left on Sunday, now paired with Jack Nicklaus, Simons trailed by only one shot. After narrowly missing birdie chances at Nos. 16 and 17, his drive took a bad kick into the left rough on the 18th. Simons chose a 3-wood, a shot Wadkins taught him to use to pop the ball from the thick grass, but he hit it poorly. A double bogey dropped him to T-5, and Trevino outlasted Nicklaus in a playoff the next day.
After turning pro, it took Simons nearly five years to win his first title, at New Orleans in 1977. His second victory came the following year at The Memorial, where he prevailed in a final-round grouping with Nicklaus. "He really only talked about one thing [he did] on tour," says Vadersen, "his win at Muirfield. He said he snuck it by Jack a couple of times that last round and got the giggles all the way around."
Simons believed his lack of power caused stresses in his game that would cause his "nerves to wear out before the next guy." In fact, shoulder, wrist and back injuries -- as well as a job in the brokerage business and a desire to spend more time with his family -- had more to do with his leaving the tour after the 1988 season.
Trading the pressure of the tour for post-dinner play illuminated by cart headlights with his boys Bradley, Sean and Ryan at the golf course community where the family lived in Jupiter, Fla., Simons liked his new life. But storm clouds were brewing. Sherry was diagnosed with stage four breast cancer in 1990 when she was 38. Surgery, chemotherapy and radiation prolonged her life, but the stresses on their marriage were adding up. "We both lived for the boys and let the marriage go," Jim told Golf Digest's Tom Callahan in 1998.
While Sherry was battling breast cancer, Jim was struggling with alcohol dependency. "Jim had another side of him that a lot of people didn't know," says a longtime acquaintance. "I don't think he could handle the alcohol." Says Hook: "She had cancer and it wasn't something she could control, and she never forgave Jim for not being able to control himself better. Neither one was there for the other, and you need help to get through those things."
About the time Sherry's cancer recurred, early in 1996, Jim was receiving treatment for alcohol and drug abuse. He filed for divorce Nov. 27, 1996, and Sherry's health worsened as the case worked its way through court. The divorce was finalized just two days before Sherry, 45, died May 7, 1997 in Winston-Salem, N.C. The minor Simons children, Sean and Ryan, who were 16 and 14 at the time, chose to live with Haddock and his wife, Kay, in North Carolina, near where they had been living with their mother.
The fissured relationship with his children weighed heavily on Jim. "I think he went through some things that no one deserved to, really," says Hook. "It made it really tough on him the last few years of his life." Friends say Jim longed to be fully reconnected with his children. Sean Simons, now 25, speaking on behalf of his brothers, declined to elaborate publicly, beyond saying all three, to varying degrees, had reconciled with their father. "We resolved our conflict years ago, and he was long forgiven," Sean says of his relationship with his father.
According to several people who knew him, Simons was in good spirits in the weeks leading up to his death. He continued to deal with the effects of fibromyalgia, whose symptoms can include sleeplessness and headaches in addition to muscle aches. Friends and relatives are convinced, as the official investigation concluded, Simons did not kill himself. "I just never felt it was a suicide," says Hook, who saw Simons three times in 2004 and exchanged e-mails frequently with him until his death. "He was frustrated and battled some depression, but in all the times when he was down, he never indicated that [desire] to me. I just never felt it was a suicide." Simons' second marriage, to Sally Davidson, ended in divorce Feb. 10, 2005, but sources say it was an amicable parting.
Says Ralph Simons: "I can guarantee this was no suicide. If he had gone that way, I'm sure he would have left notes for people. His wallet was laying in the house with a lot of money in it. Lot of different things."
But the fact that Simons didn't purposely end his life isn't much comfort. James regrets that his efforts to get Simons to stop taking prescription painkillers did not work. "I did my darndest to do everything I could do to clean him up," James says. "This past summer he swore to me he was only taking a very minuscule amount of painkillers, and I actually saw a dramatic change in his reaction time and well-being. Quite frankly, Jim hid his drug problem extremely well. He lied to everybody about it. After his death, we found out how severe it was."
If there is a lesson in Simons' death, James hopes it is an awareness of the potential danger of prescription medication. "People don't realize how addictive prescription drugs are," he says. "Anybody can get hooked on them. I don't care how strong mentally you think you are."
Amid the pills and the exercise equipment Simons left when he walked out to his hot tub for the last time were many festive bags filled with candy and trail mix. That was his holiday tradition, packaging and delivering the sweets to friends, neighbors, children at his church, even area golf pros who had extended a courtesy. "He'd make up bag after bag," says James, "and give them to everybody he knew."
Bill Fields is a senior editor for Golf World magazine
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
"So we see that even when Fortuna spins us downward, the wheel sometimes halts for a moment and we find ourselves in a good, small cycle within the larger bad cycle. The universe, of course, is based upon the principle of the circle within the circle. At the moment, I am in an inner circle. Of course, smaller circles within this circle are also possible."
-- From the writings of Ignatius Reilly, the central character in the farcical New Orleans novel "A Confederacy of Dunces"

It seems the circle of fortune, in the form of Hurricane Katrina, has thrown New Orleans and the Gulf Coast of Mississippi for quite a loop. In these places the tears have largely been shed already, but if you scratch the surface of a memory, mist comes easily to the eyes of even the toughest soul. In the Crescent City, it's sometimes hard to find a cycle of good within the downward spiral, though the very fact the Zurich Classic is being played at all this week is a sign of faith in the future. To the east, on the Mississippi coast, the promise of tomorrow seems as real as a wrecking ball. In both cases, golf may have a crucial role in the recovery.

It seems the circle of fortune, in the form of Hurricane Katrina, has thrown New Orleans and the Gulf Coast of Mississippi for quite a loop. In these places the tears have largely been shed already, but if you scratch the surface of a memory, mist comes easily to the eyes of even the toughest soul. In the Crescent City, it's sometimes hard to find a cycle of good within the downward spiral, though the very fact the Zurich Classic is being played at all this week is a sign of faith in the future. To the east, on the Mississippi coast, the promise of tomorrow seems as real as a wrecking ball. In both cases, golf may have a crucial role in the recovery.

The historic cemeteries of New Orleans, the above-ground cities of the dead, are tourist attractions. Now, it's as if these cities have spread like a plague through whole neighborhoods; blocks and blocks in every direction there are thousands upon thousands of mausoleums, skeletons of 2x4s, spray-painted not with gang graffiti but with the search-and-rescue "X." The utility poles are festooned with colorful placards. Mildew Removal. Gutting. Quick Cash for Houses. Before Katrina, the elevated I-10 interstate was a parking lot at rush hour. Now, in the shadows underneath it, thousands of drowned vehicles remain immovable objects, waiting to be crushed and buried. Before Aug. 29, 2005, Orleans Parish alone had close to 500,000 people. Now, it's less than half that.

The historic cemeteries of New Orleans, the above-ground cities of the dead, are tourist attractions. Now, it's as if these cities have spread like a plague through whole neighborhoods; blocks and blocks in every direction there are thousands upon thousands of mausoleums, skeletons of 2x4s, spray-painted not with gang graffiti but with the search-and-rescue "X." The utility poles are festooned with colorful placards. Mildew Removal. Gutting. Quick Cash for Houses. Before Katrina, the elevated I-10 interstate was a parking lot at rush hour. Now, in the shadows underneath it, thousands of drowned vehicles remain immovable objects, waiting to be crushed and buried. Before Aug. 29, 2005, Orleans Parish alone had close to 500,000 people. Now, it's less than half that.

For a lucky few, golf is as normal as golf in a wasteland can be. New Orleans CC and Metairie CC were under 6 to 12 feet of water. At Metairie, more than 300 bags of clubs stayed underwater for the duration of the flood. "I've refinished and regripped more than 200 sets of clubs," Metairie assistant professional Tommy Mayne says. "I never want to regrip another set again."

For a lucky few, golf is as normal as golf in a wasteland can be. New Orleans CC and Metairie CC were under 6 to 12 feet of water. At Metairie, more than 300 bags of clubs stayed underwater for the duration of the flood. "I've refinished and regripped more than 200 sets of clubs," Metairie assistant professional Tommy Mayne says. "I never want to regrip another set again."

For others, the wasteland remains all too real. Destroyed and desolate, like most of the houses in the Pontchartrain Park neighborhood surrounding it, Joseph Bartholomew Memorial GC still gets play, of a sort. Around lunchtime, a fivesome from Fluor Corporation was on the tee. They had found a metal 3-wood and a handful of dirty balls and were taking big, ugly swings in old work boots and laughing. Glenn Madison, a policeman, was on one of the tees along Congress Drive with a red shag bag and floppy hat that dangled a neck shade to protect against the sun, digging his game out of the dirt and weeds. Eric St. Julian, a guy with 20 years in at UPS and one of the adult supervisors of New Orleans' First Tee program, was in a corner of the driving range. He brought a chipped and dented small wire bucket filled with scruffy looking balls to hit in pretty much any direction he wanted with his strong, smooth motion.

For others, the wasteland remains all too real. Destroyed and desolate, like most of the houses in the Pontchartrain Park neighborhood surrounding it, Joseph Bartholomew Memorial GC still gets play, of a sort. Around lunchtime, a fivesome from Fluor Corporation was on the tee. They had found a metal 3-wood and a handful of dirty balls and were taking big, ugly swings in old work boots and laughing. Glenn Madison, a policeman, was on one of the tees along Congress Drive with a red shag bag and floppy hat that dangled a neck shade to protect against the sun, digging his game out of the dirt and weeds. Eric St. Julian, a guy with 20 years in at UPS and one of the adult supervisors of New Orleans' First Tee program, was in a corner of the driving range. He brought a chipped and dented small wire bucket filled with scruffy looking balls to hit in pretty much any direction he wanted with his strong, smooth motion.

"What I enjoyed when I first started playing golf was going by in the evening, like right now," Julian says, "and the old-timers are hanging around telling stories. They talk about life, they talk about golf. And the young guys are just hanging around, and you go out on the driving range and they give you a little lesson. It was just a beautiful feeling. That's what I miss about it, that community feeling. There's rarely in our society [a place] where young people and old people mix in a comfortable environment. That is one place. A golf place."

"What I enjoyed when I first started playing golf was going by in the evening, like right now," Julian says, "and the old-timers are hanging around telling stories. They talk about life, they talk about golf. And the young guys are just hanging around, and you go out on the driving range and they give you a little lesson. It was just a beautiful feeling. That's what I miss about it, that community feeling. There's rarely in our society [a place] where young people and old people mix in a comfortable environment. That is one place. A golf place."

In a city struggling to provide even the barest medical services, a game can seem insignificant. New Orleans hosted a mini-Mardi Gras to let the world know it was open for business. And, in fact, tourist areas like the French Quarter are largely up and running, if somewhat lacking in their usual quota of street performers, mimes, urchins, artists and the usual assortment of heavily inked freaks. But the rubble of the Lower Ninth Ward stubbornly refuses to budge and, after Fat Tuesday, cadaver-sniffing dogs still were searching for bodies.Down there, a landmark isn't a street sign, grocery or neighborhood bar; it's the crumpled house sitting on top of an upside-down car, like Dorothy's house on the Wicked Witch of the East, a point of reference for the tours that take the curious through the devastation as if they were going on a safari through misery. One imagines the driver's amplified voice, "On your left is where Anderson Cooper did his show. On your right..."

In a city struggling to provide even the barest medical services, a game can seem insignificant. New Orleans hosted a mini-Mardi Gras to let the world know it was open for business. And, in fact, tourist areas like the French Quarter are largely up and running, if somewhat lacking in their usual quota of street performers, mimes, urchins, artists and the usual assortment of heavily inked freaks. But the rubble of the Lower Ninth Ward stubbornly refuses to budge and, after Fat Tuesday, cadaver-sniffing dogs still were searching for bodies.
Down there, a landmark isn't a street sign, grocery or neighborhood bar; it's the crumpled house sitting on top of an upside-down car, like Dorothy's house on the Wicked Witch of the East, a point of reference for the tours that take the curious through the devastation as if they were going on a safari through misery. One imagines the driver's amplified voice, "On your left is where Anderson Cooper did his show. On your right..."

Everyone, especially New Orleans' citizens, wonders why so much remains undone. Seven months after Fats Domino was hauled by boat off the roof of his house, minuscule figures can be seen crawling like industrious insects across the roof of the Super Dome. The picture of progress, however, can seem as distant as the workmen appear.

Everyone, especially New Orleans' citizens, wonders why so much remains undone. Seven months after Fats Domino was hauled by boat off the roof of his house, minuscule figures can be seen crawling like industrious insects across the roof of the Super Dome. The picture of progress, however, can seem as distant as the workmen appear.

While the desire to rebuild is ingrained, automatic, a knee-jerk reflex of the species, another hurricane season looms. You'll have to pardon the residents of New Orleans if they don't have a lot of confidence at the moment in the Army Corps of Engineers. It was "improved" sections of the levees that failed. And there are ongoing controversies about the materials being used in their reconstruction.

While the desire to rebuild is ingrained, automatic, a knee-jerk reflex of the species, another hurricane season looms. You'll have to pardon the residents of New Orleans if they don't have a lot of confidence at the moment in the Army Corps of Engineers. It was "improved" sections of the levees that failed. And there are ongoing controversies about the materials being used in their reconstruction.

The flood maps, released April 12, will help inform New Orleanians what parts of their city are destined to become green space, what parts will require houses built on stilts and what the insurance implications for all of this will be. Every destroyed house on every destroyed block represents a pending decision by an individual homeowner regarding what makes the most sense for them. The city -- with an income based almost entirely on sales-tax revenue (another reason Mardi Gras had to happen) -- is effectively bankrupt. What kind of services, garbage pickup, police and fire protection, will these neighborhoods get?

The flood maps, released April 12, will help inform New Orleanians what parts of their city are destined to become green space, what parts will require houses built on stilts and what the insurance implications for all of this will be. Every destroyed house on every destroyed block represents a pending decision by an individual homeowner regarding what makes the most sense for them. The city -- with an income based almost entirely on sales-tax revenue (another reason Mardi Gras had to happen) -- is effectively bankrupt. What kind of services, garbage pickup, police and fire protection, will these neighborhoods get?

In the midst of all this, the role of golf can seem superfluous. But, in fact, in some neighborhoods, it could prove pivotal if given half a chance.

In the midst of all this, the role of golf can seem superfluous. But, in fact, in some neighborhoods, it could prove pivotal if given half a chance.

Once just a down-and-out municipal course, Bartholomew GC is named after the man who built it. At the beginning of the 20th century, Bartholomew learned the game as a caddie at Audubon GC. He became an accomplished player and clubmaker and learned course design from Seth Raynor. He helped build Metairie CC, two City Park courses and the Pontchartrain Park track that now bears his name, among others. And, while Bartholomew built the courses, he could not play them because he was black.

Once just a down-and-out municipal course, Bartholomew GC is named after the man who built it. At the beginning of the 20th century, Bartholomew learned the game as a caddie at Audubon GC. He became an accomplished player and clubmaker and learned course design from Seth Raynor. He helped build Metairie CC, two City Park courses and the Pontchartrain Park track that now bears his name, among others. And, while Bartholomew built the courses, he could not play them because he was black.

Bartholomew GC is surrounded by a mostly middle-class, mostly black neighborhood. It gets just as much play from white golfers as from black. The clubhouse porch, little more than a concrete slab with a roof, was the gathering place for cards, lies and jokes. It was the host course of New Orleans' nascent First Tee, an undertaking so successful -- 209 children enrolled -- that the city of New Orleans intended to incorporate the First Tee's life-skills instruction into its summer camps and Boys and Girls Clubs. The course had just undergone a $1 million tee, fairway and irrigation renovation project and had not yet reopened on Aug. 29.

The day before Katrina hit, 30 First Tee children were on the driving range as the word came to evacuate. The program's kids, like the city itself, were scattered to the winds. After the hurricane, when the canals breached, Bartholomew was under as much as 20 feet of water, 9 feet deep at the course's highest point.

Bartholomew GC is surrounded by a mostly middle-class, mostly black neighborhood. It gets just as much play from white golfers as from black. The clubhouse porch, little more than a concrete slab with a roof, was the gathering place for cards, lies and jokes. It was the host course of New Orleans' nascent First Tee, an undertaking so successful -- 209 children enrolled -- that the city of New Orleans intended to incorporate the First Tee's life-skills instruction into its summer camps and Boys and Girls Clubs. The course had just undergone a $1 million tee, fairway and irrigation renovation project and had not yet reopened on Aug. 29.

The day before Katrina hit, 30 First Tee children were on the driving range as the word came to evacuate. The program's kids, like the city itself, were scattered to the winds. After the hurricane, when the canals breached, Bartholomew was under as much as 20 feet of water, 9 feet deep at the course's highest point.

While there are several other public courses in New Orleans, Bartholomew and Brechtel Memorial Park GC are the only two municipally owned courses, and they are in particularly dire straits given the fiscal realities of the city. Pete Carew is the superintendent for both. He came back the Sunday after the storm to bring supplies to a friend who had stayed throughout. "He actually drank his ice chest, all the water in his coolers and was working on his hot tub," says Carew. "He was halfway down."

While there are several other public courses in New Orleans, Bartholomew and Brechtel Memorial Park GC are the only two municipally owned courses, and they are in particularly dire straits given the fiscal realities of the city. Pete Carew is the superintendent for both. He came back the Sunday after the storm to bring supplies to a friend who had stayed throughout. "He actually drank his ice chest, all the water in his coolers and was working on his hot tub," says Carew. "He was halfway down."

The entire city smelled like rotten meat. The odor latched onto everything, even people, as if it was able to form a chemical bond. The trip back in was a scene Carew will never forget. "I got into the city wearing a city shirt and city hat saying 'First Responder.' It was unruly. There was gunfire everywhere. I carried a .357 over my chest and a shotgun behind my seat. I drew my gun six times on people trying to get to the supplies in the back of my pickup. It was a place that you didn't want to be."

The entire city smelled like rotten meat. The odor latched onto everything, even people, as if it was able to form a chemical bond. The trip back in was a scene Carew will never forget. "I got into the city wearing a city shirt and city hat saying 'First Responder.' It was unruly. There was gunfire everywhere. I carried a .357 over my chest and a shotgun behind my seat. I drew my gun six times on people trying to get to the supplies in the back of my pickup. It was a place that you didn't want to be."

Six weeks later, after all the water was pumped back into the canal, Bartholomew remained a place you didn't want to be. "When I first came back, I had dead [sea] trout along the clubhouse. On the golf course we had sharks, redfish, drum, all the saltwater fish were out here," Carew says. The sheer weight of the water compacted the earth, irreparably damaging the irrigation system. The salt water destroyed the turf, the machinery, the switch boxes, pretty much everything. The wind and water had toppled hundreds of oak trees. In front of the newly sodded first tee was the hulk of a Ford Taurus, settled there like just another dead fish. One green may not have had a cup, but it sported a leather Queen Anne chair.

Six weeks later, after all the water was pumped back into the canal, Bartholomew remained a place you didn't want to be. "When I first came back, I had dead [sea] trout along the clubhouse. On the golf course we had sharks, redfish, drum, all the saltwater fish were out here," Carew says. The sheer weight of the water compacted the earth, irreparably damaging the irrigation system. The salt water destroyed the turf, the machinery, the switch boxes, pretty much everything. The wind and water had toppled hundreds of oak trees. In front of the newly sodded first tee was the hulk of a Ford Taurus, settled there like just another dead fish. One green may not have had a cup, but it sported a leather Queen Anne chair.

After this summer's hurricane season, as more schools open and more kids come back to the city, the First Tee program will begin to reconstitute itself, likely with a different set of children, probably at ravaged Brechtel on the other side of the Mississippi River. Four sources have pledged almost $100,000 to help get the program up and running, when the time comes. The prognosis for the public courses of New Orleans that once charged $8 on a weekday is not as good. The engineering company that did the renovations at Bartholomew estimates the cost of rebuilding there at $5 million. The damage at Brechtel was close to $3 million. And FEMA doesn't pay for grass.

After this summer's hurricane season, as more schools open and more kids come back to the city, the First Tee program will begin to reconstitute itself, likely with a different set of children, probably at ravaged Brechtel on the other side of the Mississippi River. Four sources have pledged almost $100,000 to help get the program up and running, when the time comes. The prognosis for the public courses of New Orleans that once charged $8 on a weekday is not as good. The engineering company that did the renovations at Bartholomew estimates the cost of rebuilding there at $5 million. The damage at Brechtel was close to $3 million. And FEMA doesn't pay for grass.

From its place in the racial history of golf to the more mundane consideration of its location on a bus line, Bartholomew proved an ideal site to host the First Tee. In a city with so many needs and so little money, a golf course is a low priority, even one in a middle-class neighborhood near two universities that could function as a catalyst for the rebirth of a community.

From its place in the racial history of golf to the more mundane consideration of its location on a bus line, Bartholomew proved an ideal site to host the First Tee. In a city with so many needs and so little money, a golf course is a low priority, even one in a middle-class neighborhood near two universities that could function as a catalyst for the rebirth of a community.

"I just wish, somehow," says Ann Macdonald, the city's director of parks and parkways, "we could get a benefactor, get Joe Bartholomew Course back up and running. Folks will come back. This is their life. If we could just beat the drums and have people realize how important this course is to our city, to that community, to the children."

"I just wish, somehow," says Ann Macdonald, the city's director of parks and parkways, "we could get a benefactor, get Joe Bartholomew Course back up and running. Folks will come back. This is their life. If we could just beat the drums and have people realize how important this course is to our city, to that community, to the children."

Even those who appreciate its value, such as PGA Tour player and New Orleans native Kelly Gibson, wonder if anything can happen soon. "I'm very positive about New Orleans," Gibson says, "but you've got to pick your battles right now." While "benefactor" might be too much to hope for, perhaps "partner" is not.

Even those who appreciate its value, such as PGA Tour player and New Orleans native Kelly Gibson, wonder if anything can happen soon. "I'm very positive about New Orleans," Gibson says, "but you've got to pick your battles right now." While "benefactor" might be too much to hope for, perhaps "partner" is not.

With the flood maps out, New Orleans is going to be colored a lot more green. Golf could be a neighborhood magnet. The danger is, like the first Battle of New Orleans, this one could be fought after the war is over. Unlike the original, it might be lost.

With the flood maps out, New Orleans is going to be colored a lot more green. Golf could be a neighborhood magnet. The danger is, like the first Battle of New Orleans, this one could be fought after the war is over. Unlike the original, it might be lost.

If the flooding of New Orleans was the disaster within the disaster, Mississippi's antebellum mansions, floating casinos and beach towns absorbed the full fury of Katrina's right-handed uppercut. Almost as the storm surge receded, the cleanup commenced in the area once derisively called the Redneck Riviera -- often aided by the corporate dollars that are turning the Gulf Coast into a first-class golf destination ... the good cycle within the bad.

If the flooding of New Orleans was the disaster within the disaster, Mississippi's antebellum mansions, floating casinos and beach towns absorbed the full fury of Katrina's right-handed uppercut. Almost as the storm surge receded, the cleanup commenced in the area once derisively called the Redneck Riviera -- often aided by the corporate dollars that are turning the Gulf Coast into a first-class golf destination ... the good cycle within the bad.

Fifty miles or so northeast of New Orleans is The Bridges GC, the Arnold Palmer course at Casino Magic. One of the starters at the course, an old riverboat pilot they called Captain Fox, died in the storm. The casino had a giant entertainment barge where people such as Hootie and the Blowfish, the Neville Brothers and Tim McGraw and Faith Hill had performed. Smokey Robinson was scheduled to appear the week Katrina hit. The Bridges loaded its golf carts on the barge, and the casino put all its liquor on it, too, and the entire load wound up across the Bay of St. Louis in Diamondhead. Though the course is closed now for resodding, it initially reopened Dec. 15 just to get something in the community up and running. Immediately after the storm, the ground was so slippery a person couldn't stand up straight on it. They hosed the mud off the greens and cleaned the fairways with shovels and Bobcats and played golf using 6-inch cups.

Fifty miles or so northeast of New Orleans is The Bridges GC, the Arnold Palmer course at Casino Magic. One of the starters at the course, an old riverboat pilot they called Captain Fox, died in the storm. The casino had a giant entertainment barge where people such as Hootie and the Blowfish, the Neville Brothers and Tim McGraw and Faith Hill had performed. Smokey Robinson was scheduled to appear the week Katrina hit. The Bridges loaded its golf carts on the barge, and the casino put all its liquor on it, too, and the entire load wound up across the Bay of St. Louis in Diamondhead. Though the course is closed now for resodding, it initially reopened Dec. 15 just to get something in the community up and running. Immediately after the storm, the ground was so slippery a person couldn't stand up straight on it. They hosed the mud off the greens and cleaned the fairways with shovels and Bobcats and played golf using 6-inch cups.

Across the bay, Diamondhead got the Pine Course open by Oct. 16 and its other course, the Cardinal, open by Feb. 1. By Jan. 1, the number of Gulf Coast courses open was in double figures, most in surprisingly good condition considering their ordeal. After a while, the sheer number of downed trees becomes a meaningless statistic. A thousand here, two thousand there. Grand Bear, a Nicklaus course on the safe side of I-10 away from the Gulf and next to the DeSoto National Forest, put its estimate in excess of 4,000.

Across the bay, Diamondhead got the Pine Course open by Oct. 16 and its other course, the Cardinal, open by Feb. 1. By Jan. 1, the number of Gulf Coast courses open was in double figures, most in surprisingly good condition considering their ordeal. After a while, the sheer number of downed trees becomes a meaningless statistic. A thousand here, two thousand there. Grand Bear, a Nicklaus course on the safe side of I-10 away from the Gulf and next to the DeSoto National Forest, put its estimate in excess of 4,000.

Gulf Hills GC, built in 1927 by Jack Daray, who is best known as the professional and architect of Olympia Fields in Chicago, is one of the Gulf Coast's two venerable courses. As it turns out, this sandy slice of Mississippi was tethered to Chicago by the Illinois Central railroad and the tales of the old days and its old ways run from Al Capone to Sam Giancana and the New Orleans boss, Carlos Marcello, who used to meet there in a rented party house. The Mob and the hurricanes leave plenty of stories behind. After Katrina, the members of Gulf Hills instituted a local rule allowing a free drop out of the sailboat in the fourth fairway.

Gulf Hills GC, built in 1927 by Jack Daray, who is best known as the professional and architect of Olympia Fields in Chicago, is one of the Gulf Coast's two venerable courses. As it turns out, this sandy slice of Mississippi was tethered to Chicago by the Illinois Central railroad and the tales of the old days and its old ways run from Al Capone to Sam Giancana and the New Orleans boss, Carlos Marcello, who used to meet there in a rented party house. The Mob and the hurricanes leave plenty of stories behind. After Katrina, the members of Gulf Hills instituted a local rule allowing a free drop out of the sailboat in the fourth fairway.

Jimmy McAnnally, who was nearly killed in his squad car during Hurricane Camille while working for the Jackson County Sheriff's Office and who now does public relations for Gulf Hills, came back the morning after Katrina left. "It looked sort of like a picture of a war zone where the ships had been offshore bombarding the coastline," he says. "We were in shock. I didn't think we'd ever reopen. I really didn't. We were standing there. We just didn't know which way to go. You didn't know where to start." But start they did, and they opened Oct. 1.

Jimmy McAnnally, who was nearly killed in his squad car during Hurricane Camille while working for the Jackson County Sheriff's Office and who now does public relations for Gulf Hills, came back the morning after Katrina left. "It looked sort of like a picture of a war zone where the ships had been offshore bombarding the coastline," he says. "We were in shock. I didn't think we'd ever reopen. I really didn't. We were standing there. We just didn't know which way to go. You didn't know where to start." But start they did, and they opened Oct. 1.

The other grand dame of the coast, Great Southern GC, which had nine holes designed by Donald Ross, likely won't make a full recovery. The vintage 1920s clubhouse was little more than a pile of sticks, the final resting place of their collection of old photographs of Francis Ouimet and Bobby Jones playing an exhibition there, of the visits of Hogan, Snead, Nelson and Zaharias. The decision on the course's fate will be driven more by business than catastrophe, however. The green and tee sites directly abutting the Gulf of Mexico are just too valuable as real estate, and it seems likely the course, open for the time being with a couple of temporary greens, will reappear in some altered state.

The other grand dame of the coast, Great Southern GC, which had nine holes designed by Donald Ross, likely won't make a full recovery. The vintage 1920s clubhouse was little more than a pile of sticks, the final resting place of their collection of old photographs of Francis Ouimet and Bobby Jones playing an exhibition there, of the visits of Hogan, Snead, Nelson and Zaharias. The decision on the course's fate will be driven more by business than catastrophe, however. The green and tee sites directly abutting the Gulf of Mexico are just too valuable as real estate, and it seems likely the course, open for the time being with a couple of temporary greens, will reappear in some altered state.

Davis Love III's Shell Landing course was only minimally damaged, and Grand Bear picked up its pieces so thoroughly that both appear untouched by Katrina. They are part of the Gulf's unabated invasion of "name" architects. The Beau Rivage's casino, with 1,740 rooms, is set to reopen on the first anniversary of the hurricane, Aug. 29, and its new Tom Fazio layout, Fallen Oak, is slated to open in November. Jerry Pate's new course, The Preserve, is scheduled to open in early June. The Oaks GC has a new owner, Pacific Life, and a new lease on its financial life, and it reopens in August. One course that has gone completely offline is President Broadwater GC, next door to Great Southern. Both courses were built on land originally owned by Jefferson Davis. The new Broadwater will be part of yet another casino master plan. Virtually all the Gulf's courses are coming back better than they were before Katrina had a name.

Davis Love III's Shell Landing course was only minimally damaged, and Grand Bear picked up its pieces so thoroughly that both appear untouched by Katrina. They are part of the Gulf's unabated invasion of "name" architects. The Beau Rivage's casino, with 1,740 rooms, is set to reopen on the first anniversary of the hurricane, Aug. 29, and its new Tom Fazio layout, Fallen Oak, is slated to open in November. Jerry Pate's new course, The Preserve, is scheduled to open in early June. The Oaks GC has a new owner, Pacific Life, and a new lease on its financial life, and it reopens in August. One course that has gone completely offline is President Broadwater GC, next door to Great Southern. Both courses were built on land originally owned by Jefferson Davis. The new Broadwater will be part of yet another casino master plan. Virtually all the Gulf's courses are coming back better than they were before Katrina had a name.

None of this in any way minimizes the damage done that day. Twisted bridges sit toppled in the Bay of St. Louis. In the tiny beach town there, a church steeple lays on the ground with a sign that says, "Do Not Remove." The houses of Pass Christian are gone. Old neighborhoods in Biloxi, like The Point, don't exist anymore. Every structure in Waveland was under water. There once were 18,000 hotel rooms along the coast; now there are 5,000, many filled by construction workers and residual emergency responders.

None of this in any way minimizes the damage done that day. Twisted bridges sit toppled in the Bay of St. Louis. In the tiny beach town there, a church steeple lays on the ground with a sign that says, "Do Not Remove." The houses of Pass Christian are gone. Old neighborhoods in Biloxi, like The Point, don't exist anymore. Every structure in Waveland was under water. There once were 18,000 hotel rooms along the coast; now there are 5,000, many filled by construction workers and residual emergency responders.

In the golf-course community at Diamondhead, during the storm one man shared the roof of his house with a deer. As he sat there, a small boat came floating by. He got in the boat and was surprised when he pulled the cord and the motor started right up. He began going from rooftop to rooftop, collecting people and ferrying them to higher ground.

In the golf-course community at Diamondhead, during the storm one man shared the roof of his house with a deer. As he sat there, a small boat came floating by. He got in the boat and was surprised when he pulled the cord and the motor started right up. He began going from rooftop to rooftop, collecting people and ferrying them to higher ground.

Up the coast in Gulf Hills, where they lost 177 houses and nine lives, two men rescued an incapacitated woman from the wreckage of her house by carrying her out in the top of a Weber grill.

Up the coast in Gulf Hills, where they lost 177 houses and nine lives, two men rescued an incapacitated woman from the wreckage of her house by carrying her out in the top of a Weber grill.

The father-in-law of one golf pro stood in his house with water up to his armpits, holding up a glass of sweet tea in one hand and his pack of cigarettes in the other. When a Tupperware bowl floated by, it gave him a dry place to put his drink and his smokes so he could devote both hands to keeping his living room furniture from floating out of the living room and his dining room furniture from floating out of the dining room. When his wife found out about it, she said, "Since when was it all right to smoke in the house?"

The father-in-law of one golf pro stood in his house with water up to his armpits, holding up a glass of sweet tea in one hand and his pack of cigarettes in the other. When a Tupperware bowl floated by, it gave him a dry place to put his drink and his smokes so he could devote both hands to keeping his living room furniture from floating out of the living room and his dining room furniture from floating out of the dining room. When his wife found out about it, she said, "Since when was it all right to smoke in the house?"

One pro didn't know for three days whether or not his brother was alive. Later, his brother told him what surprised him most was how cold the water was. Katrina was a huge storm that raged for half a day. He said sometimes, as you stood in the water, you had to urinate on yourself just to keep warm.

One pro didn't know for three days whether or not his brother was alive. Later, his brother told him what surprised him most was how cold the water was. Katrina was a huge storm that raged for half a day. He said sometimes, as you stood in the water, you had to urinate on yourself just to keep warm.

One man said the best advice he could give people preparing for a hurricane would be to fill their cars with as much ice and beer as they could stuff in it because, as it turns out, you can buy anything with ice and beer.

One man said the best advice he could give people preparing for a hurricane would be to fill their cars with as much ice and beer as they could stuff in it because, as it turns out, you can buy anything with ice and beer.

Another pro told his friends not to worry about their clubs. They would be able to find their irons because irons sink, but they could forget about their woods. Oversized heads float.

Another pro told his friends not to worry about their clubs. They would be able to find their irons because irons sink, but they could forget about their woods. Oversized heads float.

These are the grillroom stories being told along Mississippi's Gulf Coast. All the people have names, but mostly they get left out in the telling. Every story is repeated as if it happened to everyone because, mostly, it did.

These are the grillroom stories being told along Mississippi's Gulf Coast. All the people have names, but mostly they get left out in the telling. Every story is repeated as if it happened to everyone because, mostly, it did.

But the twin engines of the casinos and the courses are lifting Mississippi up, spinning the wheel in a good direction. If you really want to help -- and they still need plenty of it -- throw your clubs in the trunk of the car and play golf there. The rooms are expensive and hard to come by, but the casinos are open and the courses in amazingly fine shape. Be sure to leave a little cash behind.

But the twin engines of the casinos and the courses are lifting Mississippi up, spinning the wheel in a good direction. If you really want to help -- and they still need plenty of it -- throw your clubs in the trunk of the car and play golf there. The rooms are expensive and hard to come by, but the casinos are open and the courses in amazingly fine shape. Be sure to leave a little cash behind.

Would that it could be that easy in the Big Easy.

With additional reporting by Dave Lagarde.


Would that it could be that easy in the Big Easy.

With additional reporting by Dave Lagarde.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
INCHEON, South Korea -- Michelle Wie putted well Thursday to shoot a first-round 2-under-par 70 at the SK Telecom Open and stay in contention for her first cut at a men's tournament.
The Hawaii-born teenager is five strokes off the lead in her eighth men's tournament after Australia's Adam Le Vesconte shot a 65. Malaysia's Iain Steel, Lee Sung-ho of South Korea and
Australian Brad Kennedy were two strokes back on 67.
Wie got a good start after teeing off from the back nine in mild, early morning conditions at the Sky 72 Golf Club by birdieing the 10th.
She went on to make three more birdies, including two after the turn on the first and second holes.
Wie blamed her approach shots for not going lower.
"I just got really bad lies, like on the 16th I had a really
bad lie and on the par-five 18th," the 16-year-old said. "So it
was just kind of bad luck on the chips, but I felt like I putted
very well coming back."
Wie's two bogies of the day were also unlucky.
After her tee shot on the par-four 17th nestled beside a rake -- which had to be removed -- Wie miscued her approach to send the ball rolling down a hill and into a water hazard.
Her penalty drop was placed on the slope and she deftly chipped to within two feet to salvage her first bogey.
Wie dropped into a bunker on the par-five sixth, then saw her 15-foot putt roll to the lip if the cup before it ran out of steam, drawing sighs from the 300-plus gallery of mostly Koreans.
Wie who in March finished third at the Kraft Nabisco Championship, the first LPGA major of the year, has South Korean parents and has been adopted by Korean fans as their own.
If she makes the cut after the second round Friday, she will be the second woman to do so at a Korean tournament after LPGA star Se Ri Pak finished tied for 10th at the KPGA Tour's SBS Pro-Golf Championship in 2003. No woman has made the cut in a major men's tour event since Babe Zaharias at the 1945 Los Angeles Open.
The $600,000 SK Telecom Open is sanctioned by the Asian Tour.
Despite her U.S. nationality, she has overshadowed South Korean women players in popularity even as some have surged to LPGA Tour title success, while the Hawaiian has gone without a major title.
In the days leading up to the tournament, Wie has been a
staple on South Korean television, taking batting practice at a
professional baseball game, speaking of her love for Korean
food and holding golf clinics for children.
Four South Koreans have now tasted major success with Pak getting the ball rolling in 1998 and Grace Park following
suit at the 2004 Kraft Nabisco Championship.
This is the eighth men's tournament for Wie, who regularly hits her drives over 300 yards. She missed
the cut by one stroke at the Casio World Open in Japan last
November after bogeying the last two holes.
The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -- A former caddie for LPGA golfer Jackie Gallagher-Smith dropped his lawsuit accusing the golfer of seducing him to get her pregnant.
Gary Robinson, 27, said that he dismissed the lawsuit when he found out he would not be able to have contact with the boy he thinks is his son. The child was born to Gallagher-Smith and her husband, Edward Smith, in 2004.
Robinson said that he plans to focus on advocating paternity rights, the South Florida Sun-Sentinel reported for Saturday's editions.
"He does believe that he is the father of this child and he would like to see a change in parental rights," said Robinson's attorney Cathy Lively.
He had sued for an unspecified sum, claiming fraud and intentional infliction of emotional distress. The lawsuit was filed in circuit court in West Palm Beach.
The lawsuit said, Gallagher-Smith, 37, used him as "an unwitting sperm donor."
Florida law says a child born into a marriage is deemed to be a result of the marriage. A DNA test can't be forced and Robinson has no legal claim to the child, Lively said.
After-hours telephone messages left at the offices of two attorneys representing the couple were not immediately returned.
Robinson began caddying for Gallagher-Smith in February 2004 and soon thereafter began receiving advances from her, he said. Robinson said he was in an emotional state after recently ending a long-term relationship with a girlfriend, and he passed off some early advances as "innocent playful activity."
The relationship became sexual about two months later and the two would sometimes engage in unprotected sex, he said.
Robinson said that Gallagher-Smith told him she and her husband had been unsuccessful in conceiving a child. In July, she told Robinson she was pregnant and led him to believe he might be the father, the lawsuit said.
Under pressure from Robinson, Gallagher-Smith eventually told her husband and said he forgave them, and Robinson continued to caddie for her until end of the tour season in October, Robinson said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MILWAUKEE -- Corey Pavin set the PGA Tour's scoring record
for nine holes Thursday, shooting a 26 on the front nine in the
U.S. Bank Championship.
"It seemed like it was a misprint up there maybe," Pavin said.
"It was just one of those nine holes, once in a lifetime for me so
far, anyway."
Pavin, who was 8 under at the turn and finished his bogey-free
round at 9 under, broke the mark of 27 set by Mike Souchak in the
1955 Texas Open and matched by Andy North (1975 B.C. Open), Billy
Mayfair (2001 Buick Open) and Roberts Gamez (2004 Bob Hope Chrysler
Classic). North and Gamez are both playing in the tournament this
week at the par-70 Brown Deer Park Golf Course.
The 46-year-old Pavin birdied the first six holes -- starting off
with a 39-foot putt -- then needed two putts at the par-3 seventh
after pushing his ball past the hole.
He rebounded with birdies on Nos. 8 and 9, first by hitting a
firm putt that dropped in the center of the cup from 15 feet, and
then watching his putt on the ninth slow to a near stop before
falling in from 9 feet.
"Obviously the front nine was an exceptional nine holes of
golf," Pavin said. "I knew 59 was possible when I made the turn.
I just tried to play the best I could and came up a little bit
short."
The PGA Tour scoring record is 59, set by Al Geiberger in 1977
and tied by Chip Beck (1991) and David Duval (1999).
Pavin, the 1995 U.S. Open winner, hit just two of six fairways
in regulation, but needed only 10 putts to get through the first
nine holes. For the round, he hit three of 13 fairways and needed
25 putts.
"I really didn't even feel all that great on the range warming
up," Pavin said. "Golf's like that, things happen and you never
know when they're going to happen."
Pavin, who has 14 PGA Tour victories in his career, does not
have a top-10 finish in 2006 and has made the cut in only half of
the 16 tournaments he's played this season. One of his wins was at
the Greater Milwaukee Open at the Tuckaway Country Club in 1986,
when he won on the fourth hole of a playoff over Dave Barr.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -- Billy Mayfair, a five-time winner on
the PGA Tour, was diagnosed with testicular cancer earlier this
week at the Buick Open and had surgery in Arizona.
Dr. Gil Brito at the Scottsdale Healthcare Shea Hospital said
surgery went well on Thursday and the cancer was contained.
Mayfair's testicular cancer is considered one of the most common
types and highly curable.
Mayfair has a chance to return in time for the PGA Championship
at Medinah, which starts Aug. 17, his doctor said.
"I'm doing well," Mayfair said. "I want to thank everyone for
their well wishes and support, and especially want to thank Dr.
Brito and the Scottsdale Healthcare Shea Hospital for the urgency
they displayed in dealing with my health and well-being."
Mayfair, who turns 40 on Sunday, is coming off one of his best
years on the PGA Tour. Using a one-time exemption for career money
to keep his card, he finished 22nd on the PGA Tour money list with
over $2.2 million.
He is 39th on the money list this year.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The Modified Stableford scoring system is used just once during the PGA Tour season, at this week's International at Castle Pines GC outside Denver. Points are awarded on every hole -- eight for double eagle, five for eagle, two for birdie, zero for par, minus-one for bogey, minus-three for double bogey or worse.
This format would appear to benefit the aggressive player, the presumption being that since birdies and bogeys are not weighted evenly, a player who makes more birds would not sweat the odd bogey. Going for the green percentage and birdie conversion percentage would be the two statistics I would look at when trying to determine a winner.
Going for the green is the percentage of times a player goes for the green with his second shot on a par 5 or goes for the green off the tee on a par 4 when it is a viable option. Most of the long hitters enjoy success in this category -- Tiger Woods, John Daly, Phil Mickelson and J.B. Holmes are the tour leaders.
Of those four, only Mickelson and Holmes are in the field. Mickelson won this tournament in 1993 and 1997 and was second in 1998 and 2000. However, the format has been tweaked a little since then. In the past, a set amount of players would miss the cut each day, and scores of the players who made it to the next round would see their scores revert to zero.
At various times during the history of the event this happened after every round, or after three rounds. This meant a player could play conservatively if he was safely inside the cut zone, knowing he would be even with everyone else the next day. That is no longer the case as points are added to the prior days total for all four rounds, meaning safe play has few rewards. One other thing to note: Even when a player goes for the green and misses, he averages a better score than when he lays up.
Long hitters also dominate the tour's birdie conversion percentage leaders, though relatively shorter hitters David Toms (the 1999 winner) and Jonathan Byrd rank fifth and sixth, and both are in the field this week. An even more telling stat for this course that measures more than 7,500 yards is birdie conversion percentage on approach shots of more than 200 yards, where Duval, Tim Clark and Tom Lehman excel among players in the field this week. Length off the tee, however, shouldn't be much of an issue for anyone – Castle Pines is more than a mile high, meaning most players can average 300 yards with the driver.
One interesting thing about the International is that no player has ever won in back-to-back years. Why is that? Defending champ Retief Goosen thinks he knows why. "It's all about making birdies and getting those points on the board," he said. "You can shoot 69 and the other guy can shoot 71. But he'll probably have more points than you than because he's made more birdies or eagles. You lose less points for making bogeys than what you gain for making birdies. That's probably why [no one has won] back to back. It could be the format."
Goosen also praised the greens as being as good as they get. "If your putter gets hot, you can make a lot of putts," he said. "Probably coming back the next year, you're not making as many as you made the year before."
The fearsome foursome
Ernie Els: Els has an interesting history at Castle Pines. He has finished first, second, third, fourth (twice), fifth, sixth and seventh in the tournament. He's never missed the cut in 14 starts. He's also coming off his best finish of the year, a third at the British Open.
Daniel Chopra: A hunch pick, really, but one based on stats. He was T-15 here a year ago, but his 2006 numbers impress. He's second on tour in putting, seventh in birdie average and third in birdie conversion percentage.
Lucas Glover: The pressure to make the Ryder Cup team might be getting to Glover, who struggled in the final round at last week's Buick Open. But he has all the makings for a good week at the International -- distance, an aggressive approach, and a nice putting stroke from four-to-eight feet. That adds up to birdies on the scorecard. Plus, he won't have stress over a final-round pairing with Woods.
Brett Quigley: An average player in all of the tour's statistical categories, Quigley is, nonetheless, having a stellar season with five top-10s in his last eight non-majors. There is concern that the game that played so well at the Warwick Hills, one of the shorter courses on tour, might not play so well at one almost 500 yards longer.
John Antonini is a senior editor for Golf World magazine
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Byron Nelson, the courtly Texan with the textbook swing who died Tuesday, holds two records even Tiger Woods may never approach.
In 1945, Nelson won 11 straight tournaments and 18 events overall. Woods has won five straight PGA Tour events heading into this weekend's American Express Championship. It is his longest personal win streak on Tour.
Nelson, who had a PGA Tour event in his native Fort Worth named for him, was "probably the nicest, warmest, friendliest immortal that ever came down a fairway," according to golf writer and fellow Texan Dan Jenkins. His laid-back manner was always compared with fellow country boy Ben Hogan, who was six inches shorter, six months younger and a cold-blooded assassin on a golf course.
The popular Nelson and the pugnacious Hogan grew up in Fort Worth and were both 12 when they first met as caddies at a modest, little nine-hole layout known as Glen Garden Country Club.  Even then Nelson was unique.  "Unlike every other caddie in the yard," writes Hogan biographer Curt Sampson, "Byron didn't swear, fight, gamble or smoke. The Bible and the Church of Christ were his guiding lights."
Like all caddies back then, he taught himself how to play. In a 1986 interview with golf writer Al Barkow, Nelson recalled his first real round of golf as a 12-year-old: "I shot 118, and I don't think I counted when I whiffed it.  I actually hit the ball 118 times.  But I went from 118 that year to 79 the next. I just fell into it, and started hitting the ball. The pros weren't interested in teaching juniors. They were unapproachable, most of them. So I got every book that was around and watched good players and started piecing together my own game."
As 15-year-old rivals, Nelson and Hogan tied for first place in the annual Glen Garden Christmas caddie tournament and Byron won a nine-hole playoff by a stroke.  Fifteen years later, they tied for first at the 1942 Masters and Nelson won that playoff by a stroke, too, over 18 holes.
Nelson, Hogan and Virginian Sam Snead, who was also born in 1912, accounted for 21 victories and 18 second-place finishes in the Masters, U.S. Open, British Open and PGA Championship in 18 years from 1937 and 1954.  They also combined for an astonishing 196 career victories on the PGA Tour, Snead winning 81, Hogan 63 and Nelson 52.  They were America's second great golfing triumvirate, following the Roaring '20s trio of Walter Hagen, Bobby Jones and Gene Sarazen.
In the fall of 1927, Nelson played a small role in his idol Hagen's fourth straight PGA Championship victory at Cedar Crest Country Club in Dallas. During the deciding match against Joe Turnesa, Hagen, who played without a hat, needed something to fend off the glare of the sun while he took his second shot on the 13th hole. Recognizing the tall 15-year-old who had been following him around all week, Sir Walter asked the future Lord Byron if he could borrow his visor. "You bet, Mr. Hagen," said young Nelson, absolutely thrilled to be of assistance. The Haig took the visor, pulled it on to shade his right eye, and reached the green in two. He won the match and the championship, 5 and 4.
Nelson, whose full name was John Byron Nelson Jr., was born in Waxahachie, Texas, just southeast of Fort Worth on Feb. 4, 1912.  The son of a grain and feed merchant, he dropped out of high school to clerk for the Fort Worth and Denver City Railroad, a job that afforded him plenty of daylight hours to play golf.
He turned professional in 1932, secured his first teaching position at Texarkana Country Club a year later, and married Louise Shofner, a girl he had met in Sunday school, a year after that.  He moved up north to take an assistant pro's job at Ridgewood Country Club in New Jersey in 1935 and that summer won his first pro tournament, the New Jersey State Open, beating a field that included Paul Runyon, Craig Wood, and Vic Ghezzi.
Two years later, he was summoned to play in the Augusta National Invitation Tournament, as the Masters was called back then, and won his first major tournament by two strokes over another 25-year-old Texan, Ralph Guldahl.  Nelson would be Augusta's youngest champion until Jack Nicklaus pulled on his first green blazer as a 23-year-old in 1963.
He also got his first taste of international golf in 1937, finishing fifth in the British Open, a major he only played once in his prime, and helping Walter Hagen's U.S. squad beat the Britons, 8-4, in the Ryder Cup.
By the time Nelson claimed his second Masters in 1942, he had also won the 1939 U.S. Open and the 1940 PGA Championship, and had become an innovator of modest repute by designing golf shoes, inventing the golf umbrella, and popularizing the tennis visor as appropriate headgear.  The press took to calling him "Lord Byron, golf's mechanical man," a tribute to his unerring driving and iron play.
In '39, he finished first in all three major domestic opens at the time -- the North & South, U.S., and Western -- then lost the deciding match of the PGA Championship, 1-up, to Henry Picard on the 37th hole.  After the Bobby Jones grand slam sweep of the U.S. and British Opens and the U.S. and British Amateurs in 1930, Nelson's near-sweep in '39 was the decade's most dominant season.
At the U.S. Open in Philadelphia that year, Nelson posted a 68 in the fourth round to tie Craig Wood and Denny Shute after Snead gave the championship away with a bogey 5, triple bogey 8 on the last two holes of regulation and finished two strokes back.  The next day, 18 holes were not enough to separate Nelson and Wood (they shot 68s, while Shute had a 76), forcing another round that Nelson won by three strokes with a 70.
Nelson's victory in the 1942 Masters came four months after the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor had brought the United States into World War II.  Within a year the military draft and gas rationing reduced the PGA Tour to just three tournaments.  But in 1944, with Germany and Japan on the run in Europe and the South Pacific, confidence returned on the home front and the tour came back to life with 22 events.
A mild case of hemophilia earned Nelson a 4-F classification from his draft board, an exempt status shared by his friend and four-ball partner Jug McSpaden, who suffered from severe sinus allergies. Together, golf's "Gold Dust Twins" ruled the revived PGA Tour with 12 victories and 11 second-place finishes between them -- Byron winning seven individual titles, Jug four, and both teaming to outplay the field in the Minneapolis Four-Ball. Nelson averaged 69.67 strokes per round and earned one-fourth of all the prize money the PGA Tour offered -- $37,968, a record haul even if the loot was in war bonds, which were worth 75 percent of face value. With nearly all of the America's favorite athletes in the service, Nelson stepped into the void as the Associated Press' top male athlete of 1944, the first golfer to win the award since Sarazen's U.S. Open-British Open double in 1932.
But '44 was just a warm-up for greater heroics in 1945, when Nelson doubled the tour record for victories in a season to 18, bettered the previous winning streak record of three consecutive victories by eight and repeated as AP's top male athlete.  He also set a new single-season earning record of $63,336, a figure that on today's PGA Tour would be worth close to $10 million. And that's not counting endorsement money.
In the first nine weeks of 1945, Sam Snead, who had been discharged from the Navy the previous fall, won four tournaments (at Los Angeles, Gulfport, Pensacola and Jacksonville) and Nelson won three (Phoenix, Corpus Christi and New Orleans).  The Streak didn't get under way until March 11 in Miami where Nelson and McSpaden teamed to win the Miami Four-Ball final, 8 and 6, over Shute and ex-New York Yankees outfielder Sam Byrd. That was followed by wins at the Charlotte Open (by four strokes over Snead in a second 18-hole playoff), Greensboro Open (by eight), Durham Open (by five), Atlanta Open (by nine), Montreal Open (by 10), Philadelphia Invitational (by two), and Chicago Victory Open (by seven).
A tired Nelson headed into the PGA Championship at Dayton in mid-July on an eight-tournament tear, but feeling "like I'm a hundred years old." He then beat Sarazen (4 and 3), Mike Turnesa (1-up), Shute (3 and 2), Claude Harmon (5 and 4), and Byrd (4 and 3) for the title.  "I was seven under par," said an exasperated Turnesa, who fired a 68 and then a 67 at Nelson in their 36-hole match.  "I don't see how anyone can beat him."
Passing up the St. Paul Open for a week's rest, Nelson returned to action in Chicago, winning the Tam O'Shanter Open and its hefty $13,600 first prize for the fourth time in five years, this time by 11 strokes over runners-up Sarazen and Hogan.  That made it 10 in a row.  No. 11 came the next week at the Canadian Open in Toronto where Nelson shot even par against a nominal field and won by four. Two weeks later, on Aug. 19, The Streak ended at the Memphis Open with a fourth-place finish behind Freddy Haas, the first amateur to win a tour event since 1936.  The pressure off, Nelson rebounded by winning the very next week at the Knoxville Invitational, his 15th victory of the year, by 10 strokes over a field than included Hogan and Snead.
That fall, Nelson won at Spokane with a 266, finished a distant second to Hogan at Portland where Ben broke the world record for 72 holes with a 261 and then trumped his old rival by putting together a 62-68-63-66--259 to win the Seattle Open with an aggregate that would hold up for 10 years.  After two months off, Nelson made a curtain call in mid-December, returning to Glen Garden to win the Fort Worth Open for his 18th victory in 12 months.
"Assuming that par on the courses he played averaged 71," wrote historian Herbert Warren Wind, "Byron was about 320 under par for his year's work. [His] average score for 18 holes over 120 tournament rounds, 68.33, was unquestionably the most amazing feat by any golfer since the Grand Slam.  It was small wonder that Byron Nelson had thousands of admirers who believed he was the greatest golfer the game had ever known, greater than Jones, greater than [Harry] Vardon."
What his admirers didn't know was that trying to live up to those expectations was wearing Nelson out. Doctors at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota had determined that the aching back and acute stomach pains that plagued Byron the second half of 1945 were stress related.  Nevertheless, he began 1946 by winning the first two tournaments of the year and had six victories by midsummer.  He missed a seventh win and his second U.S. Open title when he bogeyed the last hole of regulation at Cleveland and fell into a three-way tie with Vic Ghezzi and Lloyd Mangrum.  The following day after they all shot 72 in the first 18-hole playoff, Mangrum, a Purple Heart war veteran, won the second extra round by a stroke with another 72.
Ten weeks later, his nerves frayed and his body weary at 34, Nelson announced that the PGA Championship in August would be his final appearance as a tour regular.  When he and Hogan were placed at opposite ends of the draw, golf fans anticipated one last meeting between the game's two best players, 19 years after their first showdown in the Glen Garden caddie tournament.
It never happened.  Nelson, with two Masters, two PGAs and a U.S. Open to his credit, lost to Porky Oliver, 1-up, in the quarterfinals.  Hogan reached the final where he disposed of Oliver, 6 and 4, to win his first major championship.  The torch had been passed.  Hogan, who won 13 tournaments in 1946, was now the best player on the tour.
After the Ryder Cup matches in Portland that November, Nelson retired to his small cattle ranch in Roanoke, Texas.  In his last three years of competitive golf, Lord Byron had won 32 of 72 tournaments.
He returned every now and then when the spirit moved him, particularly when Augusta called every spring.  In the two years that flamboyant fellow Texan Jimmy Demaret won the Masters in 1947 and 1950, Nelson finished second and then tied Hogan for fourth. On a vacation to Europe in 1955, he was talked into giving the French Open a try and won it.
Never known as colorful when he played, television and ABC Sports made Nelson golf's most recognizable color commentator in the 1960s. He was also captain of the successful U.S. Ryder Cup team at Royal Birkdale in 1965 and a widely admired coach of future champions, Tom Watson being his most prominent student.
But Nelson's most lasting tribute came in 1968 when the Dallas Open was renamed the Byron Nelson Classic. The tournament is sponsored by the Sportsmanship Club of Dallas, which donates proceeds to programs that help at-risk youth.  "It has meant more to me, golf-wise, than anything," said Nelson in 2000. "The thing of it is, this has been going on for 32 years now and I've been involved with this very unusual group of people.  I've never heard or known any one of those men in the Sportsmanship Club to say or do anything that would hurt anybody."
The first three winners of the Dallas Open in the mid-1940s were Nelson, Snead and Hogan.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CHANDLER'S CROSS, England -- Good news for the rest of golf:
Tiger Woods is going on vacation.
A streak that began 10 weeks ago on the sun-baked links of
Hoylake reached six straight PGA Tour victories on rain-drenched
fairways north of London when Woods went wire-to-wire in the
American Express Championship, making him the first player in tour
history to win at least eight times in three seasons.
Threatened only by the weather that twice delayed the
inevitable, Woods closed with a 4-under 67 for an eight-shot
victory over Adam Scott and Ian Poulter.
"He's dominating the game," Scott said. "It's not the first
time he's done it, either."
The trophy in hand, Woods had one foot in a courtesy car that
was ready to take him away when he took a few questions from the
BBC. After playing seven times in the last nine weeks, he was eager
to get home to Florida.
"I'm getting away for a little bit," Woods said. "As far as
golf, I've had enough of it for a while."
This might have been his most dominating performance since the
streak began at the British Open in July, and not just because the
eight-shot victory was his largest margin since winning by 11 at
the 2003 Bay Hill Invitational.
Woods had such control over his game that he was third in
driving distance and fifth in driving accuracy, missing only 12
fairways all week. And during one stretch, he hit 36 consecutive
greens in regulation, a streak that ended when his approach on the
12th hole drifted left and into a bunker for his only bogey of the
final round.
One other streak ended on the last hole of the tournament -- it
was the first time all week he failed to make eagle on the 567-yard
closing hole at The Grove. His chip from just short of the green
scooted by the cup and stopped a few feet away for a tap-in birdie
that put him at 23-under 261.
"This was a fun week," he said. "I hit the ball really well --
all 72 holes, really. It's fun when you can control your golf ball
that well."
In a week remembered for the death of Byron Nelson, it rekindled
curiosity whether Lord Byron's record in 1945 of 11 consecutive
victories really is untouchable.
Woods wasn't ready to touch that one -- yet.
"It's still a long way away," he said with a laugh. "If you
look at it, I'm barely halfway. What he did was absolutely
remarkable, and I'm just thrilled that I've been able to win six in
a row twice. That to me is a pretty neat accomplishment in
itself."
Woods won the final four PGA Tour events in 1999 and his first
two starts in 2000 to match Ben Hogan (1948) for the second-longest
winning streak on the PGA Tour.
He passed Nelson, Hogan, Sam Snead and Arnold Palmer with his
third PGA Tour season of at least eight victories. Woods won eight
times in 1999 and nine times in 2000.
And he has at least one tournament left -- the Tour Championship.
Woods probably won't decide until the last minute whether to
play Disney in three weeks. Skipping that tournament, which has
never been his favorite, would leave him one round short of being
eligible for the Vardon Trophy for lowest scoring average.
Asked how much that award meant, Woods replied, "Not much."
"I've had a good year," he said. "But if you don't play
enough rounds, you don't play enough rounds."
He might come up short because of missing the cut at the U.S.
Open for the first time in a major. That was his first tournament
back since his father died of cancer in May, and Woods has been
nearly unstoppable since then.
The only two tournaments he didn't win was the Western Open (a
tie for second) and the World Match Play Championship two weeks ago
at Wentworth, a European Tour event that does not count toward his
PGA Tour streak.
Woods successfully defended his title for the fifth time this
year, and he is 10-of-15 in World Golf Championships that are
stroke play.
He won at The Grove the first two days by opening with rounds of
63-64 to build a five-shot lead, and never giving anyone else much
hope. The closest anyone got to him on a dreary afternoon in this
village north of London was Jim Furyk, his Ryder Cup partner.
Furyk got within five shots through five holes and was at 15
under when his approach to the sixth buried in lush grass on the
side of a hill. The entire group searched for the ball, and it was
located only because Ian Poulter inadvertently stepped on it. By
rule, Furyk had to drop the ball in the same spot without penalty
because of the outside interference.
Furyk then told rules official Mike Shea he was taking a
one-stroke penalty for an unplayable lie because he would not have
been able to play it had the group found the ball without Poulter
stepping on it. He went back to the fairway and got up-and-down for
bogey.
"I just felt like it was definitely taking advantage of the
situation," Furyk said. "Ian did me a favor by finding the ball.
Stepping on it probably was the only way we were going to get it.
All that went through my mind, and I felt like I did the right
thing."
Furyk closed with a 69 and finished fourth at 270.
Woods improved to 38-3 when he has at least a share of the lead
going into the last round, and he has never lost when leading by
more than one. Any thoughts about a collapse ended early, when
Woods hit a long iron from 225 yards on the par-5 second that
dropped softly over a bunker and stopped 3 feet away.
In one of his rare mistakes, Woods hit the putt too hard and it
lipped out, making him settle for birdie.
The person carrying the scoreboard got confused and posted 20
under next to Brett Quigley's name, which came as a shock to some
of the fans pressed behind the ropes down the third fairway. Those
who had been following Woods all week knew better.
"He's obviously at a comfort level with his swing," Scott
said. "He's phenomenal. We're all up against it. I've got to start
playing in the events he doesn't play in, that's for sure."
The next couple of weeks might be a good time to play.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Canadian Jason Zuback, generally credited with putting power golf on the sports landscape, won the 2006 RE/MAX World Long Drive Championship for a record fifth time Saturday night at The Palms GC.
Zuback claimed the open division title with a drive of 368 yards, 29 inches, defeating runner-up Eric Lastowka (355 yards, 6 inches) in the match-play finals. Zuback, 36, previously reeled off four consecutive world titles from 1996-99. He earned $125,000 this time around from a record purse of $500,000.
Lastowka collected $50,000 for his career-best performance. He previously reached the open division finals in 2001.
Zuback, a resident of Calgary, Alberta, was elected to the Long Drivers of America (LDA) Hall of Fame in 2003. He posted the longest drive of the evening finals, 386 yards, with temperatures in the low 60s and no appreciable breeze.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tiger and Elin Woods will become first-time parents this summer, the world's top-ranked golfer announced Saturday.
The couple did not disclose the month of birth or whether the child is a boy or girl.
"Obviously, we couldn't be happier and our families are thrilled," said Woods, who turned 31 Saturday. "I have always wanted to be a dad. I just wish my father could be around to share the experience."
Woods was introduced to his future wife by fellow tour player Jesper Parnevik. The former Elin Nordegren, who turns 27 on Jan. 1, was a successful model in Sweden. They began dating and became engaged in November 2003 in South Africa, where Tiger was competing in the Presidents Cup. The couple was married on Oct. 5, 2004 during a private ceremony of family and close friends in Barbados.
"I'm going to stick close to home for the next few weeks," Woods said. "As I said on my Web site Friday, I'm going to start my 2007 PGA Tour season at the Buick Invitational in late January, which will allow Elin and I to spend more time with our families during this very special time in our lives."
Mark Soltau is the editor of TigerWoods.com and a contributing editor for Golf Digest magazine.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii -- Vijay Singh wasn't interested in the
history he made by winning the Mercedes-Benz Championship.

	   A month away from turning 44, all he cares about is the future.Coming off his least productive season in five years, Singh
reminded a winners-only field at Kapalua that he is still a major
force by closing with a 3-under 70 for a two-shot victory over
Adam Scott.It was Singh's 18th victory since turning 40, breaking the PGA
Tour record held by Sam Snead.And Singh became the first player atop the standings in the new
FedExCup competition, which the tour has dubbed a "new era in
golf." It brought out the old version of Singh, who delivered a
strong statement that his best golf is not behind him."I wanted this win, and I practiced hard for it," Singh said.
"I worked hard and it paid off."How much longer can he continued to play at this level?"Fred Funk won a golf tournament when he was 48, and I'm a lot
bigger and a lot stronger than Freddie Funk," Singh said. "If he
can win at 48, what makes me think I'm not going to win when I'm
50? If I'm healthy and playing the way I'm doing right now ...
five, six, 10 years, I don't know. I'm just going to keep going."He had a lot to prove at Kapalua.Singh had only one victory in his last 35 tournaments, and
conventional wisdom held that his body was breaking down. Instead,
he worked harder than ever. He worked out twice a day, and hit
balls for five hours in between. He promised himself to be ready to
play when he arrived at the season-opening tournament, and he was
in command at Kapalua from the start.Singh doubled the size of his three-shot lead after two holes
and played the final 29 holes in blustery conditions without a
bogey. Only a late charge by Scott kept it interesting."You don't throw in the towel ever, no matter what," said
Scott, who trailed by five shots with seven to play and narrowly
missed a birdie putt on the 17th that would have trimmed the lead
to one. "It wasn't quite enough."Singh finished at 14-under 278 and earned $1.1 million to push
him over $50 million for his career. It was his 30th career
victory, tying him with Leo Diegel for 16th for career victories on
the PGA Tour.And he earned 4,500 points for the new FedExCup competition, a
season-long points race. The tour's promotion has been so strong
that Singh said earlier this week he was tired of listening to it.
All he wanted to do was win tournaments, and he took care of that
quickly.Scott wound up missing his 3-foot comeback putt for par on the
17th, and a birdie on the 18th made the margin look closer. Scott
closed with a 69, enough to move up to No. 3 in the world ahead of
Phil Mickelson."I'm sneaking up there," Scott said. "It's a nice thing, but
until you're No. 1 it's no big deal. I don't think I'm going to be
there anytime soon."Trevor Immelman birdied the 18th for a 72 to finish third.Singh was not aware of Snead's record until someone mentioned it
during the trophy presentation. He has read Snead's books and was
mesmerized by his rhythmic swing. But the record didn't mean much."There's no trophies for doing it," he said. "It's just a
record created by who? It's not even a record. It's just a
number."And the Fijian is putting no limits on what he can do.But it's no less impressive. Singh has 18 victories and one
major in his 40s, which is about the equivalent of a career for
Davis Love III. And as determined as he is to win, there's no
telling how much longer he will stay at this level."Anyone who says 43 is old, they can go to hell," Singh said
with a laugh at the trophy presentation.His victory ended Stuart Appleby's three-year reign at Kapalua.
Appleby, who finished 10 shots behind, had won the last three years
by a combined four shots over Singh.If anyone thought Singh's bad fortune on Maui would continue, he
quickly put that to rest.He hammered his opening tee shot so far that it went through the
fairway, but his approach stopped 5 feet away for birdie. Singh
holed a 12-foot birdie on the next hole, and the rout was on as his
challengers fell apart.Scott took bogey from the bunker on No. 2 and three-putted for
bogey on the fourth. Immelman three-putted his first two holes, and
fell further behind when he came up short of the fourth green and
dropped another shot.About the only player who tried to make a move was
Will MacKenzie, and even he ran into a few problem. After opening with a
bogey, golf's free spirit ran off three straight birdies to get
within four shots. But he failed to birdie the par-5 fifth, and
after blasting a tee shot just short of the green on 398-yard
sixth, he bladed a wedge over the green into deep rough and took
bogey."I was really, really focused to do well," Singh said. "I
started off beautifully, and nobody was going to catch me."Singh sailed along under a cloudy sky and wind not nearly as
fierce as it has been the first three days. He made eight
consecutive pars until a 12-foot birdie on the par-3 12th to extend
his lead to five shots, and didn't flinch when Scott made his
charge.Divots
David Toms put himself in a good frame of mind for his
title defense next week in Honolulu. He closed with a 67, the
lowest score all week on the Plantation course. ... Chris Couch
holed out from 176 yards in the rough on No. 7 for eagle on his way
to a 70. ... Ben Curtis met his target Sunday by finishing his
round before the leaders teed off. Playing alone, Curtis was done
in 2 hours, 35 minutes. And while it might be a small consolation,
he improved his score each day -- 81-78-77-76. The former British
Open champion and three-time winner on the PGA Tour, who rarely
plays in the offseason, also finished last in his other
Mercedes-Benz Championship appearance in 2004.


	   A month away from turning 44, all he cares about is the future.
Coming off his least productive season in five years, Singh
reminded a winners-only field at Kapalua that he is still a major
force by closing with a 3-under 70 for a two-shot victory over
Adam Scott.
It was Singh's 18th victory since turning 40, breaking the PGA
Tour record held by Sam Snead.
And Singh became the first player atop the standings in the new
FedExCup competition, which the tour has dubbed a "new era in
golf." It brought out the old version of Singh, who delivered a
strong statement that his best golf is not behind him.
"I wanted this win, and I practiced hard for it," Singh said.
"I worked hard and it paid off."


How much longer can he continued to play at this level?
"Fred Funk won a golf tournament when he was 48, and I'm a lot
bigger and a lot stronger than Freddie Funk," Singh said. "If he
can win at 48, what makes me think I'm not going to win when I'm
50? If I'm healthy and playing the way I'm doing right now ...
five, six, 10 years, I don't know. I'm just going to keep going."
He had a lot to prove at Kapalua.
Singh had only one victory in his last 35 tournaments, and
conventional wisdom held that his body was breaking down. Instead,
he worked harder than ever. He worked out twice a day, and hit
balls for five hours in between. He promised himself to be ready to
play when he arrived at the season-opening tournament, and he was
in command at Kapalua from the start.
Singh doubled the size of his three-shot lead after two holes
and played the final 29 holes in blustery conditions without a
bogey. Only a late charge by Scott kept it interesting.
"You don't throw in the towel ever, no matter what," said
Scott, who trailed by five shots with seven to play and narrowly
missed a birdie putt on the 17th that would have trimmed the lead
to one. "It wasn't quite enough."
Singh finished at 14-under 278 and earned $1.1 million to push
him over $50 million for his career. It was his 30th career
victory, tying him with Leo Diegel for 16th for career victories on
the PGA Tour.
And he earned 4,500 points for the new FedExCup competition, a
season-long points race. The tour's promotion has been so strong
that Singh said earlier this week he was tired of listening to it.
All he wanted to do was win tournaments, and he took care of that
quickly.
Scott wound up missing his 3-foot comeback putt for par on the
17th, and a birdie on the 18th made the margin look closer. Scott
closed with a 69, enough to move up to No. 3 in the world ahead of
Phil Mickelson.
"I'm sneaking up there," Scott said. "It's a nice thing, but
until you're No. 1 it's no big deal. I don't think I'm going to be
there anytime soon."
Trevor Immelman birdied the 18th for a 72 to finish third.
Singh was not aware of Snead's record until someone mentioned it
during the trophy presentation. He has read Snead's books and was
mesmerized by his rhythmic swing. But the record didn't mean much.
"There's no trophies for doing it," he said. "It's just a
record created by who? It's not even a record. It's just a
number."
And the Fijian is putting no limits on what he can do.
But it's no less impressive. Singh has 18 victories and one
major in his 40s, which is about the equivalent of a career for
Davis Love III. And as determined as he is to win, there's no
telling how much longer he will stay at this level.
"Anyone who says 43 is old, they can go to hell," Singh said
with a laugh at the trophy presentation.
His victory ended Stuart Appleby's three-year reign at Kapalua.
Appleby, who finished 10 shots behind, had won the last three years
by a combined four shots over Singh.
If anyone thought Singh's bad fortune on Maui would continue, he
quickly put that to rest.
He hammered his opening tee shot so far that it went through the
fairway, but his approach stopped 5 feet away for birdie. Singh
holed a 12-foot birdie on the next hole, and the rout was on as his
challengers fell apart.
Scott took bogey from the bunker on No. 2 and three-putted for
bogey on the fourth. Immelman three-putted his first two holes, and
fell further behind when he came up short of the fourth green and
dropped another shot.
About the only player who tried to make a move was
Will MacKenzie, and even he ran into a few problem. After opening with a
bogey, golf's free spirit ran off three straight birdies to get
within four shots. But he failed to birdie the par-5 fifth, and
after blasting a tee shot just short of the green on 398-yard
sixth, he bladed a wedge over the green into deep rough and took
bogey.
"I was really, really focused to do well," Singh said. "I
started off beautifully, and nobody was going to catch me."
Singh sailed along under a cloudy sky and wind not nearly as
fierce as it has been the first three days. He made eight
consecutive pars until a 12-foot birdie on the par-3 12th to extend
his lead to five shots, and didn't flinch when Scott made his
charge.
Divots
David Toms put himself in a good frame of mind for his
title defense next week in Honolulu. He closed with a 67, the
lowest score all week on the Plantation course. ... Chris Couch
holed out from 176 yards in the rough on No. 7 for eagle on his way
to a 70. ... Ben Curtis met his target Sunday by finishing his
round before the leaders teed off. Playing alone, Curtis was done
in 2 hours, 35 minutes. And while it might be a small consolation,
he improved his score each day -- 81-78-77-76. The former British
Open champion and three-time winner on the PGA Tour, who rarely
plays in the offseason, also finished last in his other
Mercedes-Benz Championship appearance in 2004.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The record speaks for itself. Tiger Woods simply loves Torrey Pines, with nine top-10 finishes in nine career Buick Invitational starts, including four victories.
Will Tiger claim one for the thumb this week? Or can someone else stand in his way? Our experts give their predictions on the Buick.

Tiger Woods has never finished outside of the top 10 in this event and has won it four times.
Can local boy make good again? San Diego native and newly crowned Bob Hope champ Charley Hoffman has been playing this event since he was 17.
Phil Mickelson has played more rounds on Torrey Pines -- both courses -- than the rest of the field combined. He could play it in his sleep, which was sort of how he played the final hole at Winged Foot.
Two words: Tiger Woods. It's pretty tough to argue against someone who's never finished outside the top 10 with a career scoring average of 68.4 in an event.
Birdie Buster
Will MacKenzie leads the tour in birdies, so why not?
John Rollins owns two top-10s in his last five Buick starts and he's hot, coming off a playoff at the Bob Hope.
John Rollins is second on tour with 49 birdies this year, and finished T-4 here last year. He'll go low a couple of days.
With benign conditions thanks to a dry, cool winter in San Diego, this could turn into a shootout. If so, look for Justin Rose, typically one of the tour's best at making a lot of birdies, to go low.
Super Sleeper
Charles Howell III is in pursuit of his first victory in nearly five years, but remember when his shot to the final hole hit the stick and bounced away a few years ago? That could have been victory No. 2.
Let's go with another local guy. Pat Perez hasn't had a ton of success here, but is long overdue to contend.
Lucas Glover was T-4 here last year and shot four rounds in the 60s before a wind-blown 80 in the final round at the Bob Hope. He bounces back.
Nick Watney, who shot an opening-round 66 at the Buick last year, is long and accurate off the tee and is first in greens in regulation so far this year.
Winner
Tiger Woods. He is great in season debuts, winning four of them and never finishing outside of the top 10.
Six straight PGA Tour wins. Four Buick titles. Nine top-10s in nine starts. Tiger Woods keeps the title sponsor happy with a fifth victory at Torrey.
Do you even have to ask? The season gets going for real this week, and Tiger Woods says "I'm baaaack."
Tiger Woods will extend his "streak" to seven straight on the PGA Tour because like most greats, he tends to dominate at certain venues more than others, and this is certainly one of those.

To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Arnold Palmer's golf course isn't getting
harder, but it might look that way on the scorecard.
Bay Hill Club and Lodge will play to a par 70 for the first time
next month in the Arnold Palmer Invitational by converting two
holes to par 4s. The 558-yard fourth hole will measure about 480
yards, while the 517-yard 16th hole will play close to 500 yards.
"It's something I've been thinking about for a few years now,
and I figured it was time, simply for the way the game is
progressing along," Palmer said. "Most of the guys are hitting
irons into 16. It's playing as a par 4, anyway. So I thought we should
take a look at this. I think this will make it more interesting for
the overall tournament in relation to par."
It certainly will change the dynamics of the closing holes, a
time for players to protect the lead with pars instead of trying to
make up ground with birdies. The 17th is possibly the toughest par
3 at Bay Hill, and the 18th is a daunting par 4 with a pond
protecting the front and right side of the green.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HONOLULU -- Michelle Wie injured her wrist in a fall while running and is wearing a hard cast that will keep her away from golf for at least a month, a family spokesman said Friday.
Spokesman Jesse Derris said the 17-year-old injured her left wrist this week and that her doctors expect it will take four to six weeks to heal. Wie's right wrist was tightly taped from an injury last month at the Sony Open, where she missed the cut.
"Michelle's playing schedule will be altered as needed to allow the injury to fully heal," he said.
Wie wasn't planning to play in either the SBS Open or the Fields Open the next two weeks in Honolulu when the LPGA Tour season begins. But the injury raises questions whether she will recover in time for the Kraft Nabisco Championship, the first LPGA major of the year, which starts March 29.
A year ago, Wie was one shot behind when she faced a 25-foot chip from just off the 18th green at Nabisco. She hit it 10 feet by, then missed the birdie putt that would have allowed her to join a playoff.
Wie had at least a share of the lead on the back nine of two other LPGA majors last year, but faltered badly at the end of the season. She finished out of the top 10 in her final two LPGA Tour starts and has missed the cut in her last four appearances against the men.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
WASHINGTON -- Tiger Woods officially became the host of a
PGA Tour event Wednesday that will raise money for a new learning
center on the Eastern seaboard and pay tribute to the military
during Fourth of July in the nation's capital.
"It's a pretty historic day for us," Woods said. "I remember
when I first came on tour, my goal one day with my father was to
host an event on the PGA Tour. I just wish he could be here to see
it."
The Tiger Woods Foundation, which Earl Woods helped his son
establish 10 years ago, will run the AT&T National to be played
July 5-8 at a course to be determined. All signs point toward
Congressional Country Club the first two years.
Woods and PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem openly lobbied club
members to approve hosting the event in 2007 and 2008. An answer
could come within a month.
Also undetermined is the size of the purse -- at least $6 million
-- and the size of the field. Finchem said the tournament would be
similar to invitationals hosted by players such as Arnold Palmer
(Bay Hill) and Jack Nicklaus (Memorial).
The one thing that was announced during a news conference at the
National Press Club was the commitment of AT&T to become title
sponsor of its fifth tournament. The company already sponsors PGA
Tour events at Pebble Beach and in Atlanta, along with two
tournaments on the Champions Tour. Finchem said the deal would be
for at least five years, with an option to sponsor the event
through 2012.
Woods' foundation is geared toward children and his biggest
project to date has been the $25 million Tiger Woods Learning
Center in Anaheim, Calif., which opened in February 2006. Woods
said 5,000 kids have come through the center, learning everything
from rocket science to forensics.
Woods said he would be looking for a site for a new learning
center on the East Coast.
The AT&T National replaces the International outside Denver,
which shut down last month when tournament founder Jack Vickers
couldn't find a sponsor. Vickers attributed the demise to Woods not
playing the event since 1999.
Woods expects to play his new tournament every year, although
this July is up in the air because his wife is expecting their
first child.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
It was a long wait for Hubert Green and Curtis Strange, but on Wednesday each man was named to the World Golf Hall of Fame.
Some current players were likely taking notice, considering their records are similar to those of the two newest HOFers. Green won 19 career PGA Tour events, while Strange won 17; each owns two major titles.

We gave our experts three players -- Davis Love III (19 PGA Tour wins, one major), Colin Montgomerie (eight European Tour Order of Merit titles, no majors) and Fred Couples (15 PGA Tour wins, one major) -- and asked them to opine on each one's chances of reaching the HOF someday.Davis Love III will someday be a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame.Bob Harig, contributor, ESPN.com: FACT. What could hurt Love is the fact that many view him as an underachiever. But with 19 wins, including a major and two Players Championships, he has a similar career to Hall member Tom Kite.Jason Sobel, golf editor, ESPN.com: FACT. Pro: Longevity. His 19 wins have spanned 20 seasons and he played on six Ryder Cup teams. Con: Will forever be known -- fairly or not -- as a guy who never lived up to his talent. Result: He's in. The numbers don't lie.Ron Sirak, executive editor, Golf World: FACT. Call it the Tom Kite rule. Not fulfilling your potential is considered a qualifying criteria.John Antonini, senior editor, Golf World: FACT. If Hubert Green can get elected, so can Love, and his 19 wins and one major (the same as Tom Kite) are certainly good enough. In fact, Love was in the top 10 on the PGA Tour money list 10 times, also the same number as Kite.Colin Montgomerie will someday be a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame.Harig: FACT. He's never won in the U.S., but golf is a world game and there is no denying the feat of winning seven consecutive European money titles.Sobel: FACT. Pro: Ryder Cup stalwart who remained the top Euro player for over a decade. Con: Five runner-up finishes at majors, but no title. Result: Should be a no-brainer. Could happen in the next few years.Sirak: FACT. The European voters know how much he's meant to the Ryder Cup, and how impressive it is to win seven consecutive Orders of Merit.Antonini: FACT. He won't get in via the regular ballot, but the international committee will look at Montgomerie's 30 European Tour victories and his seven straight Order of Merit titles and will deem him worthy of inclusion.Fred Couples will someday be a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame.Harig: FICTION. Injuries have derailed Couples, but 15 victories including one major is simply not enough.Sobel: FACT. Pro: His 15 wins include a Masters and two Players; he's also known as a fan favorite throughout the world. Con: Might need a few more wins to bolster the stats, but that's looking less and less likely these days. Result: It may take awhile, but he'll get in based on the fact that he was well-liked and injuries curtailed his success.Sirak: FACT. See the Davis Love entry. One major and a handful of regular tour wins is now thought to make you an immortal.Antonini: FICTION. He needs another major, and it's unlikely the bad back will allow him to get it. Couples has 15 wins, but his legacy is marked with inconsistency, at least on the level of Hall of Fame status.Subscribe to:


We gave our experts three players -- Davis Love III (19 PGA Tour wins, one major), Colin Montgomerie (eight European Tour Order of Merit titles, no majors) and Fred Couples (15 PGA Tour wins, one major) -- and asked them to opine on each one's chances of reaching the HOF someday.
Davis Love III will someday be a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame.
Bob Harig, contributor, ESPN.com: FACT. What could hurt Love is the fact that many view him as an underachiever. But with 19 wins, including a major and two Players Championships, he has a similar career to Hall member Tom Kite.
Jason Sobel, golf editor, ESPN.com: FACT. Pro: Longevity. His 19 wins have spanned 20 seasons and he played on six Ryder Cup teams. Con: Will forever be known -- fairly or not -- as a guy who never lived up to his talent. Result: He's in. The numbers don't lie.
Ron Sirak, executive editor, Golf World: FACT. Call it the Tom Kite rule. Not fulfilling your potential is considered a qualifying criteria.
John Antonini, senior editor, Golf World: FACT. If Hubert Green can get elected, so can Love, and his 19 wins and one major (the same as Tom Kite) are certainly good enough. In fact, Love was in the top 10 on the PGA Tour money list 10 times, also the same number as Kite.
Colin Montgomerie will someday be a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame.
Harig: FACT. He's never won in the U.S., but golf is a world game and there is no denying the feat of winning seven consecutive European money titles.
Sobel: FACT. Pro: Ryder Cup stalwart who remained the top Euro player for over a decade. Con: Five runner-up finishes at majors, but no title. Result: Should be a no-brainer. Could happen in the next few years.
Sirak: FACT. The European voters know how much he's meant to the Ryder Cup, and how impressive it is to win seven consecutive Orders of Merit.
Antonini: FACT. He won't get in via the regular ballot, but the international committee will look at Montgomerie's 30 European Tour victories and his seven straight Order of Merit titles and will deem him worthy of inclusion.
Fred Couples will someday be a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame.
Harig: FICTION. Injuries have derailed Couples, but 15 victories including one major is simply not enough.
Sobel: FACT. Pro: His 15 wins include a Masters and two Players; he's also known as a fan favorite throughout the world. Con: Might need a few more wins to bolster the stats, but that's looking less and less likely these days. Result: It may take awhile, but he'll get in based on the fact that he was well-liked and injuries curtailed his success.
Sirak: FACT. See the Davis Love entry. One major and a handful of regular tour wins is now thought to make you an immortal.
Antonini: FICTION. He needs another major, and it's unlikely the bad back will allow him to get it. Couples has 15 wins, but his legacy is marked with inconsistency, at least on the level of Hall of Fame status.
Subscribe to:
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Kelly Jo Dowd, a cancer-stricken mother whose dream of seeing
her teen daughter Dakoda play in an LPGA event was realized last
spring, has died. She was 42.

	   She spent years battling breast cancer, which her family said
spread to her bones and liver, and then to her brain in the final
months of her life. She died Thursday night at her home in Palm
Harbor, Fla., with her daughter and other relatives at her side.
Kelly Jo Dowd's dream was to see Dakoda play in an LPGA event. AP Photo/Steve Nesius"Kelly Jo didn't know how to quit," her husband, Mike Dowd,
said Friday. "It was inspiring. The nurses said her heart was at
160 beats a minute for the last day and a half. She was fighting.
That was Kelly Jo."

	   Her death came just over a year after seeing her daughter play
in the Ginn Open in Reunion, Fla., when Dakoda, then 13, and her
family went public with their story, even knowing Kelly Jo's death
was expected. Shortly before the tournament, the family was told
Kelly Jo would have only a few months to live.

	   "She'll die knowing that she was loved," Dakoda said in an
interview last year with The Associated Press.

	   Earlier this month, Dakoda, now 14, failed to advance in
qualifying for the U.S. Women's Open, clearly distracted by her
mother's rapidly failing health.

	   "It's been so hard," Dakoda said last month, "and my mom
fought even harder."

	   Dakoda Dowd, one of the nation's top-ranked junior golfers, was
invited to play in the 2006 tournament by Ginn Resorts president
and CEO Bobby Ginn, who lauded the Dowds Friday as "a special
family whose story touched a nation."

	   "Kelly Jo Dowd inspired us all with her strength, courage and
tireless efforts to educate both women and men about breast cancer,
the disease that would eventually take her life," Ginn said. "Her
zest for life and boundless enthusiasm in spite of her condition
lifted countless spirits and should serve as a reminder to focus on
what is truly important in life."

	   Dowd shot a 2-over par 74 on the first day, beating a number of
major-championship winners, then shot 82 in the second round and
missed the cut.

	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   She spent years battling breast cancer, which her family said
spread to her bones and liver, and then to her brain in the final
months of her life. She died Thursday night at her home in Palm
Harbor, Fla., with her daughter and other relatives at her side.
Kelly Jo Dowd's dream was to see Dakoda play in an LPGA event. AP Photo/Steve Nesius"Kelly Jo didn't know how to quit," her husband, Mike Dowd,
said Friday. "It was inspiring. The nurses said her heart was at
160 beats a minute for the last day and a half. She was fighting.
That was Kelly Jo."

	   Her death came just over a year after seeing her daughter play
in the Ginn Open in Reunion, Fla., when Dakoda, then 13, and her
family went public with their story, even knowing Kelly Jo's death
was expected. Shortly before the tournament, the family was told
Kelly Jo would have only a few months to live.

	   "She'll die knowing that she was loved," Dakoda said in an
interview last year with The Associated Press.

	   Earlier this month, Dakoda, now 14, failed to advance in
qualifying for the U.S. Women's Open, clearly distracted by her
mother's rapidly failing health.

	   "It's been so hard," Dakoda said last month, "and my mom
fought even harder."

	   Dakoda Dowd, one of the nation's top-ranked junior golfers, was
invited to play in the 2006 tournament by Ginn Resorts president
and CEO Bobby Ginn, who lauded the Dowds Friday as "a special
family whose story touched a nation."

	   "Kelly Jo Dowd inspired us all with her strength, courage and
tireless efforts to educate both women and men about breast cancer,
the disease that would eventually take her life," Ginn said. "Her
zest for life and boundless enthusiasm in spite of her condition
lifted countless spirits and should serve as a reminder to focus on
what is truly important in life."

	   Dowd shot a 2-over par 74 on the first day, beating a number of
major-championship winners, then shot 82 in the second round and
missed the cut.

	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



"Kelly Jo didn't know how to quit," her husband, Mike Dowd,
said Friday. "It was inspiring. The nurses said her heart was at
160 beats a minute for the last day and a half. She was fighting.
That was Kelly Jo."

	   Her death came just over a year after seeing her daughter play
in the Ginn Open in Reunion, Fla., when Dakoda, then 13, and her
family went public with their story, even knowing Kelly Jo's death
was expected. Shortly before the tournament, the family was told
Kelly Jo would have only a few months to live.

	   "She'll die knowing that she was loved," Dakoda said in an
interview last year with The Associated Press.

	   Earlier this month, Dakoda, now 14, failed to advance in
qualifying for the U.S. Women's Open, clearly distracted by her
mother's rapidly failing health.

	   "It's been so hard," Dakoda said last month, "and my mom
fought even harder."

	   Dakoda Dowd, one of the nation's top-ranked junior golfers, was
invited to play in the 2006 tournament by Ginn Resorts president
and CEO Bobby Ginn, who lauded the Dowds Friday as "a special
family whose story touched a nation."

	   "Kelly Jo Dowd inspired us all with her strength, courage and
tireless efforts to educate both women and men about breast cancer,
the disease that would eventually take her life," Ginn said. "Her
zest for life and boundless enthusiasm in spite of her condition
lifted countless spirits and should serve as a reminder to focus on
what is truly important in life."

	   Dowd shot a 2-over par 74 on the first day, beating a number of
major-championship winners, then shot 82 in the second round and
missed the cut.

	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   Her death came just over a year after seeing her daughter play
in the Ginn Open in Reunion, Fla., when Dakoda, then 13, and her
family went public with their story, even knowing Kelly Jo's death
was expected. Shortly before the tournament, the family was told
Kelly Jo would have only a few months to live.

	   "She'll die knowing that she was loved," Dakoda said in an
interview last year with The Associated Press.

	   Earlier this month, Dakoda, now 14, failed to advance in
qualifying for the U.S. Women's Open, clearly distracted by her
mother's rapidly failing health.

	   "It's been so hard," Dakoda said last month, "and my mom
fought even harder."

	   Dakoda Dowd, one of the nation's top-ranked junior golfers, was
invited to play in the 2006 tournament by Ginn Resorts president
and CEO Bobby Ginn, who lauded the Dowds Friday as "a special
family whose story touched a nation."

	   "Kelly Jo Dowd inspired us all with her strength, courage and
tireless efforts to educate both women and men about breast cancer,
the disease that would eventually take her life," Ginn said. "Her
zest for life and boundless enthusiasm in spite of her condition
lifted countless spirits and should serve as a reminder to focus on
what is truly important in life."

	   Dowd shot a 2-over par 74 on the first day, beating a number of
major-championship winners, then shot 82 in the second round and
missed the cut.

	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   "She'll die knowing that she was loved," Dakoda said in an
interview last year with The Associated Press.

	   Earlier this month, Dakoda, now 14, failed to advance in
qualifying for the U.S. Women's Open, clearly distracted by her
mother's rapidly failing health.

	   "It's been so hard," Dakoda said last month, "and my mom
fought even harder."

	   Dakoda Dowd, one of the nation's top-ranked junior golfers, was
invited to play in the 2006 tournament by Ginn Resorts president
and CEO Bobby Ginn, who lauded the Dowds Friday as "a special
family whose story touched a nation."

	   "Kelly Jo Dowd inspired us all with her strength, courage and
tireless efforts to educate both women and men about breast cancer,
the disease that would eventually take her life," Ginn said. "Her
zest for life and boundless enthusiasm in spite of her condition
lifted countless spirits and should serve as a reminder to focus on
what is truly important in life."

	   Dowd shot a 2-over par 74 on the first day, beating a number of
major-championship winners, then shot 82 in the second round and
missed the cut.

	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   Earlier this month, Dakoda, now 14, failed to advance in
qualifying for the U.S. Women's Open, clearly distracted by her
mother's rapidly failing health.

	   "It's been so hard," Dakoda said last month, "and my mom
fought even harder."

	   Dakoda Dowd, one of the nation's top-ranked junior golfers, was
invited to play in the 2006 tournament by Ginn Resorts president
and CEO Bobby Ginn, who lauded the Dowds Friday as "a special
family whose story touched a nation."

	   "Kelly Jo Dowd inspired us all with her strength, courage and
tireless efforts to educate both women and men about breast cancer,
the disease that would eventually take her life," Ginn said. "Her
zest for life and boundless enthusiasm in spite of her condition
lifted countless spirits and should serve as a reminder to focus on
what is truly important in life."

	   Dowd shot a 2-over par 74 on the first day, beating a number of
major-championship winners, then shot 82 in the second round and
missed the cut.

	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   "It's been so hard," Dakoda said last month, "and my mom
fought even harder."

	   Dakoda Dowd, one of the nation's top-ranked junior golfers, was
invited to play in the 2006 tournament by Ginn Resorts president
and CEO Bobby Ginn, who lauded the Dowds Friday as "a special
family whose story touched a nation."

	   "Kelly Jo Dowd inspired us all with her strength, courage and
tireless efforts to educate both women and men about breast cancer,
the disease that would eventually take her life," Ginn said. "Her
zest for life and boundless enthusiasm in spite of her condition
lifted countless spirits and should serve as a reminder to focus on
what is truly important in life."

	   Dowd shot a 2-over par 74 on the first day, beating a number of
major-championship winners, then shot 82 in the second round and
missed the cut.

	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   Dakoda Dowd, one of the nation's top-ranked junior golfers, was
invited to play in the 2006 tournament by Ginn Resorts president
and CEO Bobby Ginn, who lauded the Dowds Friday as "a special
family whose story touched a nation."

	   "Kelly Jo Dowd inspired us all with her strength, courage and
tireless efforts to educate both women and men about breast cancer,
the disease that would eventually take her life," Ginn said. "Her
zest for life and boundless enthusiasm in spite of her condition
lifted countless spirits and should serve as a reminder to focus on
what is truly important in life."

	   Dowd shot a 2-over par 74 on the first day, beating a number of
major-championship winners, then shot 82 in the second round and
missed the cut.

	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   "Kelly Jo Dowd inspired us all with her strength, courage and
tireless efforts to educate both women and men about breast cancer,
the disease that would eventually take her life," Ginn said. "Her
zest for life and boundless enthusiasm in spite of her condition
lifted countless spirits and should serve as a reminder to focus on
what is truly important in life."

	   Dowd shot a 2-over par 74 on the first day, beating a number of
major-championship winners, then shot 82 in the second round and
missed the cut.

	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   Dowd shot a 2-over par 74 on the first day, beating a number of
major-championship winners, then shot 82 in the second round and
missed the cut.

	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   "I'm prouder today than I was yesterday that my daughter has
the courage and strength to play with these LPGA professionals,"
Kelly Jo said after that tournament. "And I feel great right now.
I feel great. My dream came true out here."

	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   The Dowd family chose to tell their story with hopes that Kelly
Jo's plight -- she ignored a lump for several months before being
diagnosed with breast cancer -- would be a strong reminder that
women should be vigilant in doing self-exams and getting checked
regularly.

	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   "I did something pretty stupid," Kelly Jo said in a 2006
interview with the AP. "And the only way that I can let myself
feel better about it is if I know that people can learn from our
situation."

	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   Plus, the family spent much time trying to raise money for
groups like MakingMemories.org, which grants wishes to people who
have been diagnosed with terminal breast cancer. Mike Dowd said
Friday that the family's fundraising quests will continue.

	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   "We're not going to run away from this," he said. "We're
going to glorify her and do her proud."

	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



	   A memorial service will be held Tuesday at Sylvan Abbey Funeral
Home in Clearwater, Fla.



To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tiger has a cub.
Less than 24 hours after Tiger Woods finished second at the U.S.
Open on Father's Day, his wife gave birth to their first child, a
daughter. He announced Monday night on his Web site that Sam Alexis
Woods was born early Monday morning.
Woods
"Both Elin and Sam are doing well and resting peacefully,"
Woods wrote. "We want to thank our doctors and the hospital staff
for all their dedicated and hard work. This is truly a special time
in our lives and we look forward to introducing Sam to our family
and friends over the next few weeks. We thank everyone for their
well wishes and continued respect of our privacy."
Woods said he would miss a major if it meant seeing the birth of
his child. Now he won't have to, but it's not clear how his
upcoming schedule will be affected.
Woods finished a shot behind Angel Cabrera on Sunday to finish
second in a major for the second time this year.
He's scheduled to host a tournament in Washington, D.C., from
July 5-8. The British Open starts July 19, and the PGA Championship
begins Aug. 9 at Southern Hills Country Club in Tulsa.
"I'm pacing myself already just because of the fact that I have
a baby coming up," Woods said about two weeks ago. "I don't know
how much I'm going to play after that or how much I'm going to play
before that. A lot of that is depending on what happens and the
health of Elin and our child."
The past two years have been life-changing for Woods, who has
won 12 majors in his brilliant career.
He turned 30 in December 2005, and the following May his father,
Earl, died at age 74 after a long bout with cancer.
A month later, Woods failed to make the cut at the U.S. Open at
Winged Foot. He came back to win the British Open in July and broke
down in tears on the 18th green at Royal Liverpool, sobbing on the
shoulder of his caddie.
In December, Woods went public with his wife's pregnancy. Last
week, before the U.S. Open he talked about becoming a father.
"My practice sessions are going to have to be tailored around a
little bit, have to move things around. But, you know, I don't
really know how my game is going to be affected by it because I've
never gone through it before," he said.
"All I know is that Elin and I are excited, and that this is
far more important than any game of golf. This is an opportunity
for us to raise our first child, and we're really looking forward
to it."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CARNOUSTIE, Scotland -- Gary Player put steroids at the
forefront of the British Open on Wednesday, saying golf has its
head buried in a bunker if it thinks the sport is clean and he
knows of one player using performance-enhancing drugs.
The nine-time major champion urged golf organizations to start
random testing.
"It's absolutely essential that we do that," Player said at
Carnoustie, where he won the British Open in 1968. "We're dreaming
if we think it's not going to come into golf."
Player says it already has.
"Whether it's HGH, whether it's Creatine or whether it's
steroids, I know for a fact that some golfers are doing it," he
said.
Asked how he knew for certain, he said one golfer told him.
"I took an oath prior to him telling me -- I won't tell you
where -- but he told me what he did, and I could see this massive
change in him," Player said. "And somebody else told me
something, that I also promised I wouldn't tell, that verified
others had done it."
The cryptic accusation put the Royal & Ancient Golf Club on the
defensive over why it does not have drug testing at the British
Open, with chief executive Peter Dawson being asked whether he was
concerned that its winner could be using steroids.
"I don't know if Gary Player is right about golfers being on
drugs, frankly, so I really can't comment," Dawson said. "One
thing I do know is that we're not drug testing here at the Open
championship this week, so just how that would be identified, I'm
not sure."
The R&A and the USGA used drug testing for the first time last
November at the World Amateur Team Championship in South Africa,
where all 12 samples came back negative.
The LPGA Tour has said it will start drug testing next year and
recently disclosed a list of banned substances to its players. The
European Tour and the PGA Tour are working on drug policies, which
PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem said likely would lead to a
testing program, although its first step is developing a list of
drugs that would be banned.
Player did not say when this conversation with the purported
steroid user took place, nor did he say whether he shared this
information with tour officials.
"I can't speak to Gary's remarks," PGA Tour spokesman Ty Votaw
said. "I can't disagree and I can't agree with him. They are his
remarks that's he is free to make."
None of the top players concurred with Player.
"He knows two [players]? I know zero," six-time major winner
Nick Faldo said. "Never heard of anybody."
Tiger Woods, who last year said he would like to see the PGA
Tour begin drug testing as quickly as possible, was asked Tuesday
if he would be surprised if a golfer tested positive for drug use.
"If anything, probably out here it would be testing positive
for maybe being hung over a little bit," Woods said. "But that's
about it. I know some guys have taken Medrol packs for inflammation
in their wrists, but other than that, I really don't see anybody
doing anything, or have heard anybody doing anything."
Phil Mickelson also said he thought golfers were clean.
"I don't think there's even a remote chance that will happen,"
he said of a golfer testing positive for steroids.
The R&A and USGA are the governing bodies for golf around the
world, although both Dawson and USGA executive director David Fay
have said that leaders of the professional tours should take the
lead in developing a drug policy.
Player said he felt 50 to 60 percent of athletes in the world
are using performance-enhancing drugs. When asked for a number of
golfers, he estimated 10.
"I might be way out," Player said. "Definitely not going to
be lower, but might be a hell of a lot more."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LODDEKOPINGE, Sweden -- Catriona Matthew won the
Scandinavian TPC on Sunday, shooting a 4-under 68 to beat Laura
Diaz and Sophie Gustafson by three shots.
Matthew finished with a 9-under 279 for her fifth victory.
"I'm absolutely delighted," Matthew said. "I struggled a bit
at the turn but the birdies on 12 and 13 helped to settle me
down."
Matthew had birdies on four of the first five holes to take a
5-shot lead.
"It's fantastic. I haven't won in a couple of years and there's
a great field here this week so I'm just thankful to have won,"
Matthew said.
Gustafson (68) and Diaz (68) tied for second place at 6-under,
and Maria Hjorth (70) tied for fourth at 4-under with LPGA
Championship winner Suzann Pettersen (71).
Defending champion Annika Sorenstam closed with a 68 for her
best round of the tournament and moved from 21st to ninth.
After playing 43 straight holes without a birdie, the Swede made
six birdies in the final round.
"It was different today," Sorenstam said. "I hit the
fairways, and if you do that you also hit the greens, and you get
birdie chances. I'm happy with my score today, but I have to work
harder."
A Hall of Famer who has won 10 majors and 84 tournaments
worldwide, Sorenstam is in the midst of the most disappointing
season of her career. She had a second place-finish in March, then
she didn't make the top 10 again until July. She sustained a back
injury in April and was sidelined for two months.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DALY CITY, Calif. -- Jason Kokrak's 3-under 137 topped
the two-day leaderboard at the U.S. Amateur on Tuesday, though
dozens of players had yet to complete all 36 holes before darkness
halted stroke play.
If Kokrak's score remains the best of the first two days,
he will become the top seed among 64 qualifiers for the match-play
portion of the tournament set to begin Wednesday. Because of a
four-hour delay due to fog on Monday, the tournament has been
behind schedule, stranding 54 players on the course late Tuesday.
Though the jockeying for the lead was competitive, the fight to
make the final 64 at all promises at least as much drama. A tie for
the last spot, which is typical, will force a playoff to determine
which players move on.
When darkness fell, 48 golfers were 6 over or better through
36 holes, while 17 others were 6 over or better though 27 holes.
Sixty-three golfers went to the clubhouse at 7 over, and
another 20 golfers were 7 over or better through 27 holes.
Kokrak, who didn't finish his first round Monday night, played
25 holes Tuesday. He credited his 3-under overall score to
control off the tee. "I'm hitting a three-iron on almost every
hole," he said. "If you're not hitting the fairway, it's tough."
Alex Prugh, a quarterfinalist at last year's U.S. Amateur,
posted a 2 under after 36 holes, shooting a tourney-best 66 on
the slightly easier Ocean Course on Tuesday. David Merkow was also
at 138 after back-to-back 69s.
Derek Fathauer was 2 under through 27 holes, while his twin
Daryl was on the bubble for the match-play portion at 6 over
through 27 holes.
Trevor Murphy, a Junior Olympic skier, was the only other player
under par after two complete rounds, with a 1-under 139.
The stroke play totals do not carry over to match play.
"There
are two tournaments this week," Merkow said. "Anybody who's in
the top 64 can win. It starts over tomorrow."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Peter Uihlein of Bradenton, Fla., and Vicky Hurst of Melbourne, Fla., were named the Rolex Junior Players of the Year by the American Junior Golf Association, it was announced Tuesday.
After garnering Rolex Junior Player of the Year honors in 2005, Uihlein, 18, became the fifth boy in the award's 30-year history to win more than once. Only Tracy Phillips (1979-80), Phil Mickelson (1986-88), Tiger Woods (1991-92) and Brian Harman (2003-04) can boast such an accomplishment. Uihlein is the first boy to ever claim the award in non-consecutive years.
Uihlein is joined on the Rolex Junior All-America First Team by Sihwan Kim of Buena Park, Calif., Cory Whitsett of Houston, Wesley Graham of Port Orange, Fla., Cody Gribble of Dallas, Spencer Cole of Greer, S.C., Gregor Main of Danville, Calif., David Chung of Fayetteville, N.C.,
Morgan Hoffmann of Saddlebrook, N.J., Luke Guthrie of Quincy, Ill., Jae Han Chun of Ansung-city, South Korea, and Bud Cauley of Jacksonville, Fla., who ended the season at No. 4 in the Polo Golf Rankings with the help of a tie for second at the Thunderbird International Junior and tie for third at The Junior Players Championship.
The Second Team includes Joseph Barr of Versailles, Ky.,
Austin Cody of North Charleston, S.C.,
Sean Dale of Jacksonville, Fla.,
Mu Hu of Shen Zhen, China,
Mark Johnson of Tulsa, Okla.,
Alex Kang of Oak Park, Calif.,
Alex Shi Yup Kim of Fullerton, Calif.,
Lion Kim of Lake Mary, Fla.,
Scott Langley of St. Louis, Mo.,
Anthony Paolucci of Dallas, Texas,
Ramsey Sahyoun of Reseda, Calif. and
Sang Yi of Carrollton, Texas.
Hurst adds the award to her impressive list of notable accomplishments in 2007. Along with her outstanding junior golf season that included three victories, three runner-up finishes and berths on the Canon Cup East Team and PING Junior Solheim Cup U.S. Team, Hurst also qualified for the U.S. Women's Open, advanced to the Round of 16 at the U.S. Women's Amateur and nearly made the cut at the LPGA's Ginn Open.
Joining Hurst on the First Team is Stephanie Kono of Honolulu, Taylore Karle of Scottsdale, Ariz.,
Kimberly Kim of Pahoa, Hawaii, Kristen Park of Buena Park, Calif., Ayaka Kaneko of Honolulu, Jane Rah of Torrance, Calif., Allie White of Lancaster, Ohio, Jennifer Johnson of Carlsbad, Calif.,
Courtney Ellenbogen of Blacksburg, Va., Alexis Thompson of Coral Springs, Fla., and Mina Harigae of Monterey, Calif., who is now a five-time Rolex Junior All-American.
The second team includes Sarah Brown of Phillipsburg, N.J.,
Sydney Burlison of Salinas, Calif.,
Cydney Clanton of Charlotte, N.C.,
Brianna Do of Lakewood, Calif.,
Danielle Frasier of Encinitas, Calif.,
Megan Grehan of Mamaroneck, N.Y.,
Isabelle Lendl of Bradenton, Fla.,
Tiffany Lua of Rowland Heights, Calif.,
Mary Michael Maggio of Conway, Ark.,
Rachel Morris of Carlsbad, Calif.,
Michelle Shin of Cape Coral, Fla., and
Julie Yang, Phoenix, Ariz.
Uihlein, who has verbally committed to Oklahoma State University, hovered at the top of the Polo Golf Rankings the entire season, never falling lower than fourth. He ascended to the No. 1 spot by way of seven top-10 finishes in national events and one AJGA Invitational victory.
He began the season at last year's Polo Golf Junior Classic -- the first official AJGA event of 2007 -- as the No. 3-ranked player. That week last November in Sea Island, Ga., he made a run to the semifinals before being defeated by Rickie Fowler, now a standout freshman at Oklahoma State. In December, he posted a second-place showing at the Orange Bowl International Junior by shooting a 65-71-67-71--274 tournament total.
His position at the top of the Polo Golf Rankings came from his continued strong finishes in AJGA Invitationals and the U.S. Junior Amateur. He placed fourth at the Thunderbird International Junior in Scottsdale, Ariz., in May with a 71-70-70--211 tournament total. Then, in June, he won his first-ever AJGA Invitational at the FootJoy Boys Invitational in Greensboro, N.C.
His strong play continued into July when he finished tied for fourth at the Rolex Tournament of Champions at The Ohio State University Golf Club's Scarlet Course, posting a 71-70-74-73--288 tournament total. By July 24, he would take the No. 1 position in the Polo Golf Rankings, a spot he would not relinquish the rest of the season.
In his next event, the U.S. Junior Amateur, he advanced to the tournament's quarterfinals before being defeated by eventual runner-up Anthony Paolucci of Dallas. He ended the summer Labor Day Weekend at The Junior PLAYERS Championship at TPC Sawgrass in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. He held onto his No. 1 ranking after his 72-70--78--220 performance was good enough for a tie for ninth.
In nine national junior events during 2007, Uihlein finished in the top 10 seven times (T-46, PING Junior at The Woodlands; T-37, The PING Invitational). In the 28 rounds of stroke play during these nine events, Uihlein amassed a 72.6 stroke average and shot 72 or less 15 times. This statistic includes a 6-under-par 66 during the second round of the FootJoy Boys Invitational that was held on the 7,280-yard Forest Oaks Country Club, home of the PGA TOUR's Wyndham Championship.
Uihlein was also named to his third consecutive Canon Cup East Team. He compiled a 3-1-0 record this year at The Honors Course in Ooltewah, Tenn., bringing his all-time record to 8-3-1.
Hurst's prowess in girls' junior golf is evident by her Polo Golf Ranking, which hasn't wavered much in more than a year. She broke into the top 10 of these rankings in June of 2006 and has held steady in the top five since July of 2006. She ended last year's season with two AJGA victories and runner-up finishes at the McDonald's Betsy Rawls Girls Championship and U.S. Girls' Junior, good enough for a No. 4 Ranking.
She carried the No. 4 ranking into the 2007 season and ended the year ranked No. 1 with eight top-10 finishes and three AJGA victories. She posted 33 rounds during stroke play competition with an average of 72.6. Fifteen times she shot 72 or better, including a 6-under-par 66 at The Country Club at Mirasol during the the Birks & Mayors Junior Championship.
She started the 2007 season by finishing tied for seventh in the stroke play portion of the Polo Golf Junior Classic. She left Sea Island, Ga., last November disappointed, however, having been defeated by Marta Silva Zamora of Spain in the first round of match play.
More solid showings followed, helping raise her ranking and expectations. She finished second at the Orange Bowl International Junior and seventh at The Verizon Junior Heritage in February. She then posted a 70-74-70 -- 214 tournament total to finish second at the Thunderbird International Junior. A victory at the Birks & Mayors Junior Championship at Mirasol, where she carded a 66-71-69 -- 206 tournament total, followed in early June. And while she stumbled the next week during the Rolex Girls Junior Championship, finishing tied for 26th at Hiwan Golf Club in Evergreen, Colo., her Polo Golf Ranking still climbed to No. 2 by mid-June.
Early July treated Hurst well, as she secured a tie for second at the Rolex Tournament of Champions with a 73-71-71-74 -- 289 performance, a fourth-place finish at the Westfield PGA Junior Championship, and a victory at the McDonald's Betsy Rawls Girls Championship. On July 19, Hurst won this, her first, AJGA Invitational title on the strength of a 70-67-69 -- 206 tournament total to run away from the all-girls field by five strokes. The next week she moved into the No. 1 spot for the first time ever, albeit short-lived.
The week of July 23, Hurst made an unlikely early exit from the U.S. Girls' Junior Championship, missing the cut by shooting a 74-79 -- 153 at Tacoma Country and Golf Club in Lakewood, Wash. She would eventually drop to No. 3 in the Polo Golf Rankings heading into The PING Invitational, the last AJGA Invitational of the season.
Hurst made the most of her time in Stillwater in early October, however, posting a 4-over-par 73-69-76 -- 218 tournament total to win by five strokes over Kimberly Kim of Pahoa, Hawaii. This victory, her second AJGA Invitational title of the season, was what she needed to propel herself back into the No. 1 position atop the Polo Golf Rankings and secure Rolex Junior Player of the Year Honors.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The long-rumored sale of Cleveland Golf has come to fruition, although the buyer came out of the dark, with SRI Sports Ltd. (parent of Srixon) landing Cleveland (which was owned by Quiksilver) for $132.5 million, according to a source familiar with the negotiations. The deal is expected to close before Jan. 31, 2008 with net proceeds from the sale being used to pay off debt.
Quiksilver acquired Cleveland in two separate purchases (as part of its acquisition of Rossignol in July, 2005 and a separate deal two months later for the remaining portion).
SRI (which also own the Dunlop name in Japan and, according to its financial report, had net sales of $2.2 billion for the first six months of 2007) is the largest equipment company in Japan, but a brand still trying to gain traction in the U.S.
The marriage, however, does make sense. Although also a maker of clubs, Srixon's primary market in the U.S. is in golf balls and according to Srixon's Web site, Sumitomo is the No. 1 patent holder of golf-ball technology in the world. Cleveland, meanwhile, has established itself as a maker of clubs and does not have a golf ball in its line.
Srixon currently has 70 tour players worldwide on its staff, including Jim Furyk, Robert Allenby, Tim Clark and Henrik Stenson. Cleveland also has an extensive tour staff headed by Vijay Singh.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. -- The PGA Tour decided to put
another cup ahead of its own Tuesday, moving the FedEx Cup finale
to the week after the Ryder Cup next year to allow Americans to be
fresh as they try to end a decade of losing.
Without switching around the 2008 schedule, some players might
have competed four consecutive weeks in the FedEx Cup, then headed
straight to Valhalla Golf Club for the Ryder Cup, regarded as one
of the most tiring and pressure-packed weeks in golf.
The changes means there will be a two-week break in the middle
of the playoffs, between the BMW Championship in St. Louis and the
Tour Championship in Atlanta. And it gives the PGA Tour its first
week without golf during the season since 1989.
"If we went back two years and were doing the schedule and TV
[negotiations] would we be in this position? No," PGA Tour
commissioner Tim Finchem said Tuesday afternoon. "We made a
miscalculation in terms of the tie-in to the Ryder Cup. We should
have been smarter. But I think it's a very good compromise for all
parties, and to protect what's important here."
The playoffs start Aug. 21 with The Barclays. After three
straight tournaments, there be a week off on tour before the Ryder
Cup is played Sept. 19-21. The FedEx Cup will conclude the
following week with the Tour Championship.
"We are appreciative of the efforts of the PGA Tour, their TV
partners and sponsors, to open up a week before the Ryder Cup,"
PGA chief executive Joe Steranka said.
U.S. captain Paul Azinger figured the change would only help his
Ryder Cup team, especially since more Americans than Europeans
figure to be involved in the FedEx Cup and the race for a $10
million payoff.
"Their guys could be over at Valhalla for a week while our guys
are grinding for a fifth week in a row," Azinger said. "It could
help. It's not going to hurt us."
The premise behind the four-week playoffs was to get the biggest
stars competing four straight weeks concluding with the Tour
Championship, where the winner of the points-based FedEx Cup
received a $10 million bonus.
The plan didn't entirely deliver this year, however, when Tiger Woods skipped the opening playoff event and still won the FedEx Cup
by a big margin. Phil Mickelson, Ernie Els and Padraig Harrington
also missed one playoff event.
The bigger concern was the Ryder Cup because 2008 was the only
year in the television contract that there was not a week off
between the Tour Championship and either the Ryder Cup or
Presidents Cup. The tour feared some players might skip playoff
events, perhaps even in the Tour Championship, to keep fresh for
the biennial match against Europe.
"You would see a majority take at least one week off -- I
guarantee it," Jim Furyk said last month.
The solution was pushing the Tour Championship behind the Ryder
Cup. That means a two-week break in the playoffs for those who
don't make the Ryder Cup teams, and chance for those who do make
the team to be fresh.
"It's a shame they didn't think of this before," Azinger said.
"They wouldn't have had to go through the headache of getting it
right."
Finchem said scheduling will not be a problem in 2009 when the
Presidents Cup is held at San Francisco sometime in October, or in
2011 when the Presidents Cup is played much later in the year in
Australia.
"The notion of playing the Tour Championship after a Ryder Cup
or Presidents Cup is a one-off. I don't see us going down that path
again," he said. "We may have a break in the playoffs. We'll see
how this works."
The rest of the FedEx Cup remains relatively unchanged for now.
The field size for the playoff events again will be 144 players
at The Barclays, 120 players at the Deutsche Bank Championship, 70
players at the BMW Championship and 30 players qualifying for the
Tour Championship.
Several players lobbied to make the playoffs more volatile,
giving more players a chance at winning the $10 million prize.
There was little movement at the top of the standings, and those
toward the bottom had little chance to move up barring a victory.
But there was strong sentiment in Monday's board meeting that
for the first year of a revamped system, it worked well enough not
to rush into massive changes. Finchem said the board would continue
to look at ways to tweak the playoff points, although points for
the regular season would not change.
One change was how to pay bonus money.
Finchem said the tour was concerned over recent legislation
about deferred retirement plans, especially recent business stories
speculating that Woods could have access to $1 billion in
retirement money at age 45 if he were to win the FedEx Cup six more
times.
Starting next year, the top 10 players in the FedEx Cup
standings will get most of their money in cash, and a percentage
deferred. The winner, for example, will get $9 million up front and
$1 million placed into his retirement fund.
All the bonus money will be deferred for those finishing out of
the top 10.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SHENZHEN, China -- Maybe the United States doesn't need
Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson to win the World Cup of Golf. Two
players out of the same high school in the Florida Panhandle are
doing just fine.

	   That would be Boo Weekley and Heath Slocum.

	   They combined for an 11-under 61 in best-ball play Thursday to
take a one-stroke lead over Germany's Alex Cejka and Martin Kaymer.
Finland, Wales, Scotland, South Africa, Thailand and England were
two shots back.

	   Weekley turned it on with six birdies and an eagle -- and a
Southern drawl that made him seem farther from home on Thanksgiving
than simply an 8,000-mile flight.

	   "It's a culture shock for me to be able to come out and see
different things, because I'm a home boy," Weekley said. "I like
to stay right around the house in the States."

	   Weekley, No. 43 in the world. was picked to represent the United
States in the 28-team event after 13 other higher-ranked Americans
turned down the invitation. In turn, he picked the 70th-ranked
Slocum, his friend from Milton High School at the western tip of
the Florida Panhandle.

	   "I think I was up in a tree deer hunting when I got the call,"
Weekley recalled. "I was teary-eyed because it was awesome ... To
us, this is like our Olympics. To know I can come over and
represent the United States, that's a plus for me."

	   Weekley is becoming something of a world traveler, making his
first trips out of the United States this year to Mexico, the
British Open in Scotland and now China.

	   However, his caddie -- Joe Pyle -- needs some work. He was
detained without the right visa trying to enter mainland China on
Tuesday from Hong Kong. He scrambled and arrived Wednesday.

	   "I walked in at about 6 [p.m.] and he was asleep and he slept
all the way until about 4 this morning," Weekley said. "He said
he was ready to get after it, and that's what we did today."

	   The teams will play an alternate-shot round Friday, another
best-ball round Saturday and then close with alternate shot on
Sunday on the Olazabal Course -- one of 12 courses at the world's
largest golf complex.

	   Both Slocum and Weekley had eagles. Slocum got his on No. 3,
dropping a 25-foot putt. Weekley got his on the par-4 12th when his
6-iron found the hole from 185 yards.

	   They should prepare for celebrations in Milton if they win the
$5 million event, worth $800,000 to each team member.

	   "They are obviously very proud of both of us for getting to
represent, not only the United States, but we're representing the
panhandle of Florida, Milton and Pensacola," Slocum said.

	   Asked what he knew about China, Weekley replied: "Not much.
Rice. Oh yeah, I knew the Great Wall of China, but I thought it was
closer."

	   "We ain't been able to do nothing," he added. "We go straight
to the motel and straight here, but I know the people here are
friendly. It's very nice. They always say 'Hey,' so polite and
stuff. That's always a plus when you show up somewhere in a foreign
country."

	   One journalist suggested the United States should have sent its
top players.

	   "I thought they sent the best team," Weekley joked.

	   England was the pre-tournament favorite with Justin Rose and Ian Poulter, the only two in the tournament ranked in the top 20. Rose
is No. 8 and Poulter No. 20.

	   Poulter had two eagles -- one with a 60-yard wedge, and the other
3-foot putt.

	   The English duo hoped to restore English pride after the
national soccer team lost to Croatia on Wednesday and failed to
qualify for next year's European championship.

	   Poulter and Rose both dressed in red and white outfits, showing
off the colors of England's national flag.

	   "I definitely wasn't going to wear all black, that's for
sure," Poulter said.

	   South Africa, with Trevor Immelman and Retief Goosen look
threatening, as does Scotland paced by Colin Montgomerie. Scotland
was the runner-up last year in Barbados to Germans Bernhard Langer
and Marcel Siem, who chose not to defend.

	   Though the event dates from 1953 it's had trouble getting
traction. Part of the World Golf Championships, it was cut loose
after last year and begins a 12-year run at Mission Hills as an
event co-sanctioned by all the major golf tours.


























To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. -- The idea was simple -- follow Tiger Woods for every single second of Round 2 at the Target World Challenge. From the moment he stepped out of his courtesy car till he disappeared into the clubhouse, I would be right there by his side.
Well, sort of.
After all, even though you're reading this on ESPN.com, my official unofficial title is "amateur golf blogger," which comes with about as many perks as you would think -- I paid for my own ticket, parked really far away and could watch Tiger only from outside the ropes.  For many, joining the mob around the world's No. 1 player is the only way to watch a golf tournament. For me, this meant facing three of the great blogger fears -- socializing with other people, physical contact and exercise.
When it was all over, I had my picture taken with Tiger, Bruce Jenner had given me a little pep talk and there was a new tournament record. Watching golf from the couch in my mom's basement may never be the same.
7:25 a.m.: I leave the house, 3 hours and 25 minutes before Tiger is set to tee off.  I'm insane.

7:45 a.m.: Or not. One mile and 20 minutes later, I'm finally on the freeway. This is L.A., after all.
8:23 a.m.: I arrive at the dirt field where the riffraff are forced to park. Any thoughts about it not being crowded disappear when I see a sign that lists the things you can't bring onto the course, including, in all caps, "NO LADDERS."
8:34 a.m.: As the shuttle pulls up in front of the Sherwood Country Club clubhouse, the kid a few rows in front of me looks in the parking lot and says, "Dad, do you think that's Tiger Woods' Buick?" It's the most excited any kid has been about seeing a Buick in 50 years.
8:48 a.m.: Waiting next to the players' parking lot for Tiger, I turn my head when I hear the sound of spikes ... only to see random fans showing up in their golf shoes. This has always struck me as lame. Since when is everyone having problems walking on grass without falling?
8:49 a.m.: Now that I've made fun of these people, I realize that I'm sure to fall down at some point today.
8:50 a.m.: He's here. Tiger Woods pulls into the parking lot driving a beige Buick Enclave. When he steps out, I notice his pants are beige, too. I have a hard enough time matching my pants with my shirt. He matches his clothes with his car.
8:51 a.m.: Walking toward us with two protein bars in hand, he offers up a quick, "Morning, guys" before heading inside. A security guard feels bad for the handful of kids and announces, "This isn't the time. There'll be a place where he'll gladly sign!" Translation: "Not here. Not now."
8:59 a.m.: With Tiger in the clubhouse, beyond the reaches of my "Grounds Only" badge, I head to the driving range. En route, I see people crowding around a Buick tent where umbrellas are being given away in exchange for taking a survey. I'm not really sure why anyone would want to carry an umbrella around for five hours, especially when there's not a cloud in the sky.
9:00 a.m.: I realize now that I've made fun of the umbrella people it will probably rain. And then I'll fall down again because I'm still not wearing golf shoes.
9:56 a.m.: Where's Tiger? The only highlight of the last hour was when Steve Stricker hit a shot that nailed the roof of the range cart and scared the poor guy driving it.
10:10 a.m.: Finally, Tiger arrives and receives warm applause from the crowd, now standing three to four deep.
10:11 a.m.: Caddie Steve Williams brings over two bags of range balls for his boss. But unlike every other bag used so far this morning, Tiger's bags are bright red, not green. As I'd later learn from Shaun Cockery, the Sherwood employee running the range, the red bags are only for the Nike Platinum TW balls, a ball only one guy out here uses. Probably a good idea to make sure Rory Sabbatini doesn't take them by mistake.
10:26 a.m.: Working through his bag quickly, Tiger needs to hit only one stinger, an absolute laser, before moving onto other shots.
10:37 a.m.: At the chipping area, Stevie drops a handful of balls at 35 yards, 20 yards and then next to the green. Tiger moves through the piles like a machine, none of his shots ending up more than six feet from the hole. He kicks a few balls into the bunker, knocks them within a few feet of the cup, and heads to the putting green.
10:44 a.m.: While Tiger's en route, I stop to get the scoop on the red bags from Cockery. But I have to wait my turn as Cockery's busy talking with Sherwood member and former gold medalist Bruce Jenner. When Cockery asks me if he's going to be on SportsCenter, I laugh and tell him "I'm not that important." The comment irks Jenner, causing him to turn to me and say pointedly, "Never underestimate yourself." I'll remember that.
10:51 a.m.: Tiger finishes his warm-up on the putting green by trying to make a 35-foot downhiller with only his right hand. He drains it on his first try. Even more frightening was the fact he had no reaction to what would have been the first thing I told my buddies when we got to the tee.
11:02 a.m.: Tiger tees off and I'm on the move along with 150 other people. Hollywood producers talk about the "four quadrant movie" -- one that appeals to men and women, young and old. As I look around, it's obvious that Tiger is the "four quadrant athlete." On the first hole alone I see an old man being pushed in a wheelchair and a new mom with a baby strapped to her chest, both of which keep me from ever complaining about having to walk.
11:10 a.m.: I'm at the first green and already I can't see a thing. The guy next to me can't see anything either, but he still groans "Ohhhh!" when the people who can see react to Tiger missing his birdie putt. That's what I call being a good sport.
11:40 a.m.: While walking down the fourth hole, I meet Jessie, a smooth 30-something country music songwriter who dresses like a surfer, walks with a cane and can't say anything without it sounding like a song lyric. Why he loves golf: "I feel alive on the first tee." What he thinks of the redesign of his local muni: "Not your daddy's country golf course anymore." Best of all is Jessie's reason for why one has to watch Tiger in person: He shakes his head and just says, "That ball flight ..."
11:48 a.m.: Tiger eats a power bar after teeing off on No. 5. Is it pathetic that I feel a special connection to that power bar since I saw it arrive with him three hours ago? Yes, it is.
11:51 a.m.: I'm waiting to cross the fairway as people start to fill in around me. It's hard to feel claustrophobic on a golf course, but this is pretty close. On cue, someone leads us all in a collective "Moooo ..." as the marshal takes down the ropes and we make our way to the other side.
12:04 p.m.: When you're up close at a tournament, you start to notice the little things -- as Tiger taps in for his birdie on the fifth, I realize his Scotty Cameron putter has a Nike head cover on it. I hope some contract lawyer at Nike got a promotion out of that slick maneuver.
12:06 p.m.: Jessie was right about the ball flight. Tiger steps up to the tee at No. 6 and proceeds to launch a 3-wood with a gorgeous 20-yard draw to match the curve of the fairway. Any critics who say today's players can't work the ball like they used to are not watching that closely.
12:15 p.m.: Tiger "misses" his first shot of the day. His drive flies 300 yards but finds the rough near the rock outcropping in the middle of the seventh fairway, meaning his next shot will find him standing on flowers a worker nurtured for the last month and a half.
12:20 p.m.: There go the flowers. It's a good thing I didn't bring my grandmother to this thing. She'd be so appalled that Tiger doesn't get free relief from there that she wouldn't be able to appreciate the fact he just knocked it hole high.
12:43 p.m.: As we all walk toward No. 9, the 60-something man near me is in the middle of giving a confident and tortured biography of Tiger Woods to his lady friend, an exegesis that includes a comparison of Tiger to Hannah Montana and the little known fact that Tiger's real name isn't Tiger, it's "Elrod." Huh? This is made even better by the fact that, unbeknownst to him, Tiger's mom Tida is walking right next to him.
12:51 p.m.: Tiger birdies the ninth to finish the front nine at 4-under-par -- the easiest 32 you'll ever see.
1:02 p.m.: Tiger strikes it to about eight feet on No. 10 and the two older guys next to me start betting on whether or not he'll make it. They go back and forth on the odds, finally settling on 3-to-2, only to realize they both wanted to bet he makes it. When I ask if I can get their names for this article, they laugh and say, "Yeah, right." They clearly don't know I'm as important as Bruce Jenner says I am.
1:04 p.m.: A maintenance truck is forced to stop as hundreds of us flee the 10th and rush down a street in Lake Sherwood on our way to No. 11. The driver's clearly annoyed till a fan explains to him, "We're following Tiger Woods!" The driver relaxes and says, "Oh, OK." I'm guessing that wouldn't have worked as well with "We're following Niclas Fasth!"
1:19 p.m.: Tiger rolls in his putt for eagle on 11 and some guy in our group says, sincerely, "Nice birdie, Tiger!" We roll our eyes, annoyed that one of our own would make us all look so stupid. Tiger smirks, knowing the real story is that his good round is quickly becoming a great one.
1:21 p.m.: As we trudge up a hill between the 11th and 12th holes, a man struggling to get to the top laughs and says, "I try not to play courses this steep."
1:28 p.m.: Our effort is rewarded as that same guy and I have a front row seat when Tiger rolls in a 30-footer for birdie on 12. The applause from a few holes ago has now become a roar. The old Asian man next to me is so giddy he turns around and starts doing what I think was supposed to be a fist bump. And for the first time today, I'm starting to do some math in my head. "Seven-under through 12 with two par-5s to go ... does he have a chance for 59?"
1:48 p.m.: Tiger eats his second (and last, as I well know) power bar of the day as he waits for partner Henrik Stenson to tee off. Poor Henrik -- it takes five hours for me to mention him and even then it's only because Tiger ate a snack.
2:10 p.m.: After pars on Nos. 14 and 15, shooting 59 is out of the question, but there's still a chance at 60 or at least a course record. All I know is Tiger has yet to really blow a shot.
2:11 p.m.: No! Until now. His drive on the par-5 16th has flown the fairway bunker.  I'm running.  Me, running.
2:14 p.m.: Not good. Tiger's ball has come to rest on some TV cables in a hazard just a few feet away. Grown men are knocking down shrubs to get a look. Williams arrives and asks everyone to take a few steps back. I move my feet in place as fans who haven't been here since 8:23 a.m. follow orders.
2:16 p.m.: Tiger takes a penalty, then a drop off the cart path and ultimately pitches out to give himself a wedge in for his 4th.  Suddenly he looks less like Tiger and more like, well, Elrod.
2:23 p.m.: Let me finish! Tiger pulls off another one, knocking it to two feet, saving par and a chance at a record in the process. If I knew anything about world history, there would probably be a perfect analogy for how Tiger came back on that hole. For now I can only compare it to every third episode of "Baywatch" when some swimmer appeared to be dead only to miraculously cough at the last second and come back to life.
2:40 p.m.: Tiger drains his long birdie putt on 17 to get to 9-under for the day. The scoring placard for this group says it all: "Woods: -12/Stenson: -3." Somehow I don't think they'll be in the same pairing tomorrow.
2:50 p.m.: As we arrive at the 18th green, it truly feels different than other times I've been to a golf tournament. This may sound crazy, but after following Tiger all day, I feel like on some weird level, we all really did help him play so well. In fact, I'm sure that's the biggest reason fans do this week in and week out -- to say they were a part of something great. Think I'm inflating our importance? As someone special once told me, never underestimate yourself.
2:52 p.m.: Tiger makes his birdie for 62. Excuse me, a tournament-record 62. He did it. We did it.
3:02 p.m.: After signing a few autographs, Tiger Woods disappears into the media room, leaving me alone for the first time since our day started. It took six and a half hours and covered more than five miles, but what seemed like a chore ended up being one of the most fun experiences I've ever had at a tournament. Turns out thousands of golf fans can't be wrong.
Except, of course, for the ones wearing golf shoes. I didn't fall down once.
Bob Smiley is a TV writer and contributor to ESPN.com's golf coverage. He also writes the golf blog Fore Right and can be reached at Bobsmiley77@gmail.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CLEARWATER, Fla. -- A hole-in-one is rare on the golf
course, but what are the odds of a blind golfer sinking one?
Leo Fiyalko couldn't see it, but his golf buddies did -- a
hole-in-one on the fifth hole at the Cove Cay Country Club.
Fiyalko is 92 and has macular degeneration. He's been golfing
for 60 years, but his 110-yard shot with a 5-iron on Jan. 10 was
his first hole-in-one.
"I was just trying to put the ball on the green," Fiyalko said.
Fiyalko tees off every Thursday with a group of golfers ranging
in age from 70 to 90-plus. He used to have a seven handicap, but
now he needs help lining up his shots and finding his golf balls
because he only has peripheral vision in his right eye.
Jean Gehring was playing in his foursome and watched Fiyalko's
swing.
"I could tell it went on the green, [but] when we got up there
I didn't see it. I looked in the hole and there it was," Gehring
said.
Gehring said Fiyalko brushed off the feat, and had to be prodded
to tell his wife about it at the end of the round.
Fiyalko's friends at the country club presented him with a
plaque last week to commemorate the feat.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PALM HARBOR, Fla. -- For all the tough losses he has endured on the golf course the last few years, Ernie Els found perspective at home in the blue eyes of 5-year-old Ben.
His son was diagnosed with autism, which Els and his wife coped with privately until the Big Easy showed up on the PGA Tour this week with an "Autism Speaks" logo on his golf bag and a message he wanted to get out.
"I feel comfortable talking about it now," Els told The Associated Press after he missed the cut Friday in the PODS Championship. "I've got a bit of a profile where it will grab attention. That's what this problem needs. And with that, hopefully, more people will get involved and we can start getting to what causes it and what can be done to help it."
His son turned 5 in October, the youngest of two children, a big boy with blond hair and blue eyes.
"Ben is quite affected by it," Els said. "But he's a lovely boy."
Els, who won the Honda Classic last week to end an 0-for-47 drought on the PGA Tour that spanned 3½ years, said he and wife Leizl have known about it for "quite a few years," and they have spoken to specialists around the world.
It was something they dealt with privately at home in London and in South Africa.
Samantha, 8, is their oldest child and she often accompanies her mother on the golf course for at least nine holes to watch Els play, sometimes bringing a sketch pad to draw the holes.
"It's been a bit of a challenge," Els said. "It's so new to everybody, that a lot of people have different ideas. After seeing just about everybody in the world, I decided on this path we're going to go.
"Like any family will tell you, it's not easy. And it's a change of life, a change of priorities. You've got to be ready for it. And it's happening more often. I never knew about it, never thought about it, until it's in your lap."
He contacted Autism Speaks and is preparing to raise money and awareness for the disorder, which impairs a person's ability to communicate and relate to others.
Bob Wright, co-founder of Autism Speaks in New York, was thrilled to have the 38-year-old South African speak out.
No other golfer touches so many corners of the world than Els, whose schedule routinely takes him to just about every continent where golf is played. Among his three major championships, Els has 60 official victories in Asia, Europe, Africa and America.
"It's very important having prominent people get out in front of this issue," Wright said. "It's hard to get people to do that. Having Ernie, somebody who is prominent all over the world, to get out here is immensely helpful."
Several celebrities who do not have autism in the family still donate time to the organization, such as Jerry Seinfeld, Bill Cosby and Jay Leno. NHL players Olaf Kolzig, Byron DaFoe and Scott Mellanby all have children with autism and founded Athletes Against Autism, which is part of Autism Speaks.
Wright said having Els involved would bring more people forward, something Els already has experienced. Cliff Kresge saw the Autism Speaks logo on the bag Friday and told him that his 8-year-old son, Mason, had autism.
"I was surprised to hear about Ernie," Kresge said. "In a way, though, we need someone of that stature to get some notice to this problem that we all have. There's so many people like that out there, and so little is being done. If they can find cures for cancer, surely they can find a cure for autism.
"Hopefully, with Ernie's notoriety, we can get to the bottom of this."
Autism is now part of Els' life.
Ben was born in October 2002, after a season in which Els captured his third major at the British Open and won the World Match Play Championship at Wentworth, his primary residence.
When they discovered he was autistic, Els did not share this publicly through some of his toughest years in golf -- having a chance to win all four majors in 2004 and coming away empty; a tubing accident that tore knee ligaments and ended his season in July; and losing more duels with Tiger Woods, most recently at the Dubai Desert Classic.
"We've been taking our time and trying to assess what we need to do, what we want to do," Els said. "We're doing a lot for Ben. But there are a lot of kids like him out there, and worse than him. We're in a fortunate position where money is not a real problem for our family. We can get Ben the right help. Some people are not in the same position. We'd like to raise money for the poor.
"And I'd like to know why it's happening," he said. "It's gone crazy the last couple of years. It's an epidemic."
Els said he was stunned to learn from Autism Speaks that 1 in 150 children are diagnosed with autism, the rate even higher for boys. Wright said while not all countries are forthcoming with statistics, Britain has even higher rates.
Before speaking publicly, Els wanted to make sure his family was comfortable -- not only his wife, but his daughter, best known in the United States for her PGA Tour commercial in which Els plays a math teacher adding the scores on a golf card, and Samantha (Sarah in the commercial) answers the question in her Afrikaans accent -- "3 under paw."
"Samantha, she's been unbelievable with Ben," Els said. "She's like a mother figure, not a sister figure. I wanted her to feel comfortable, because obviously, this is going to get attention. We just feel more ready to deal with it now."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. -- Sunday at Sawgrass felt tougher on Sergio Garcia than what he faced last summer at the British Open, a playoff loss that seemed to define a career filled with more talent than trophies.
He was tormented by a suspect putter. He heard questions whether he could win a big one.
All that changed in the final hour of The Players Championship thanks to two clutch putts, a wedge that found safety on an island and a playoff victory that Garcia desperately needed.
The best player without a major got the next best thing, making a 7-foot par putt that put him in a playoff, then beating Paul Goydos on the notorious island-green 17th with a wedge into 4 feet and a putt he could afford to miss after Goydos hit into the water.
"It feels like a major, and it tests you like a major," Garcia said. "I'm so thrilled to be here standing with the trophy."
It was a long time coming.
Garcia was in the longest victory drought of his career, stretching over three years and 53 starts on the PGA Tour. Motivated by criticism of his putting, he rolled in one critical putt after another, none bigger than a slippery par putt on the final hole for a 1-under 71.
It put him in a playoff when Goydos missed a 15-foot par putt in the final group behind him.
The first playoff in 21 years at The Players didn't last long. Goydos, hitting first, watched helplessly as a gust caused his wedge to balloon into the cloudy skies and land with a splash a few feet in front of the green.
Garcia, with no margin for error, followed with a wedge that landed on the green, caught a slope and stopped 4 feet away. He missed the birdie putt, but it didn't matter.
Goydos wound up with a double bogey and a horrible coincidence.
There were 65 balls hit into the water during the tournament. Goydos was the first to deposit one in the opening round Thursday, and the last at the worst possible time in a sudden-death playoff.
For a guy with only two victories in his career, Goydos was abundantly gracious in defeat.
"Look at the shot Sergio hit in the playoff," Goydos said. "I got beat. I played good golf. That doesn't mean you win. There's no defense. I can't tackle the little guy. There's no kneecapping. You have to accept the guy beat me.
"They key is to have the lead with no holes to go."
Garcia and Goydos each finished at 5-under 283.
The 28-year-old Spaniard, whose seven PGA Tour victories are the most by players under age 30, earned $1.71 million from the richest purse in golf and again enters the conversation as a major contender with the U.S. Open a month away.
"The goal is to keep getting better, and the only thing this tells me is to keep working hard and to believe in myself," Garcia said. "And when I do believe in myself, I think there's not a lot of guys out there that can beat me.
"I'm looking forward to keep going. I don't want to get stuck here."
The consolation for Goydos was $1.026 million for second place, more than he earned for winning the Sony Open last year. And he felt no shame losing to Garcia, whom he raved about earlier in the week as one of the top talents in the game.
"He's right there on the precipice of great things," Goydos said.
Jeff Quinney had a chance to join the playoff. He went bogey-free for 10 holes in gusts that topped 40 mph at times, but failed to save par from a bunker behind the 18th green and had to settle for a 70 and third place alone, one shot behind.
Garcia never needed a victory so badly.
He had a 10-foot putt to win the British Open at Carnoustie last summer, then lost in a playoff to Padraig Harrington. No club troubled him more than the putter, and this week on the TPC Sawgrass was no exception.
Garcia took 124 putts in regulation, 18 more than Goydos.
But he sure came up big in the final round, rolling in a collection of par putts that kept him in the hunt, birdie putts that challenged Goydos and a par on the 18th hole that made this victory possible.
Two of them stood out for the Spaniard.
One came on the par-3 17th in regulation, when Garcia lagged a 45-foot putt from the fringe to 3 feet for par. Miss it and he falls two shots behind with one hole to play. It was slick, and he poured it in the heart.
"The longest 3 feet I've ever seen," Garcia said.
The other came on the 18th after a tee shot into the right rough left him no chance to reach the green. He came up 50 yards short, his pitch ran by the hole and Garcia was discouraged to see it roll so far by. Those are the putts he hasn't made.
But he felt a strange sense of calm, knowing he was going to make the par, and he did.
"I was so happy to see that putt go in," he said.
Playing for the first time in his career with a 54-hole lead, Goydos battled to keep it. He made two unlikely birdies, a 50-foot putt on No. 4 and chipping in from 100 feet on No. 10, and led by three shots with five holes to play.
But a two-shot swing on the 14th set up the finish. Garcia rolled in a 45-foot birdie putt, while Goydos' approach came within inches of hitting the flag, bounding over the green. He missed a 10-footer for par.
The wind was relentless, stronger than it had been all week, turning the Stadium Course into a terror.
It might have been worse except that tour officials did not cut the greens and applied a double dose of water. That didn't keep Jesper Parnevik from posting an 85, the highest score at TPC Sawgrass in five years. It was one of nine rounds in the 80s, but not the most damaging. Kenny Perry, who started the final round one shot behind, shot 81.
Defending champion Phil Mickelson knew what he was up against early. Walking from the putting green to the first tee, a gust blew his cap off his head and sent it tumbling into the pond. Lefty hooked his opening tee shot into a mound and three-putted for double bogey, and his hopes of being the first repeat winner ended with a 3-foot birdie he missed on No. 11 and a tee shot into a palmetto bush on the 12th.
He closed with a 78.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CLIFTON, N.J. -- Annika Sorenstam ignored her notes and spoke from the heart. One of golf's greatest players was leaving the game, and she handled her retirement announcement the way she would a 10-foot birdie putt with the tournament on the line.
With command and composure.
Calling her decision one she'd "been thinking about for a while," Sorenstam said Tuesday she will retire after the season. The 37-year-old Swede ends an LPGA Tour career in which she has won 72 tournaments to date and delivered a defining moment when she teed it up against the men on the PGA Tour.
"I have made a decision to step away from competitive golf after this season," she said at the news conference, held at the site of this week's Sybase Classic. "Obviously this was a very difficult decision for me to make because I love this game so much. But it's the right one."
Her final event will be the Dubai Ladies Masters after the LPGA Tour season ends.
"I'm leaving the game on my terms," she said.
Tiger Woods called Sorenstam "the greatest female golfer of all time" and said it was sad to see her walk away from the game.
"It has been a pleasure watching Annika play for all of these years, but even more of an honor to call her a friend," he said.
Sorenstam brought notes with her but, for the most part, did not refer to them. She drew a parallel to Brett Favre, but was not overcome by emotion as the Green Bay Packers quarterback was when he announced his retirement in March.
"One of the things he said was that he loved the competition but not the daily grind," she said. "I feel the same way."
Sorenstam has hinted at retirement the past several seasons, saying she wanted to devote more time to her growing business and to start a family. She is engaged to Mike McGee, son of former PGA Tour player Jerry McGee.
"I respect Annika for wanting to go out on top," LPGA commissioner Carolyn Bivens said. "I'm surprised with the timing, but it's the way she wants to do it. In the long run, she'll have just as much of an impact outside the game of golf, if not more."
Even some LPGA players who know Sorenstam well were surprised at the news.
"It really is a shock," said Natalie Gulbis, who called Sorenstam her closest friend on the tour. "Life on the tour has always been special with her. Knowing she's not going to be out there is going to be a little different. Knowing Annika as well as I do, she'd love to have it end storybook, going out at No. 1."
The decision comes two days after Sorenstam won the Michelob Ultra Open at Kingsmill by seven shots for her third victory of the season, and first against a field that included Lorena Ochoa.
The victory was a sign that Sorenstam had fully recovered from last season's injuries and was poised to make a strong bid at recapturing her stature as the best in women's golf.
"The win the other day was just a bonus, really," said Sorenstam, who threw out the ceremonial first pitch before the New York Mets hosted the Washington Nationals on Tuesday night. "I had made this decision awhile back. I was almost at peace winning on Sunday, knowing what was going to happen here today."
Sorenstam dominated women's golf like few others, especially during a five-year period when she won 43 times and finished among the top three nearly 70 percent of the time. But for all her achievements -- the only woman to shoot 59, winning 10 majors and one of six women to complete the career Grand Slam -- she became most famous for testing herself against the men.
Sorenstam became the first woman in 58 years to compete on the PGA Tour when she played at the Colonial in 2003. She missed the cut, but earned worldwide respect for the way she comported herself amid massive scrutiny.
In 2001, in the second round of the Standard Register Ping in Phoenix, Sorenstam shot the lowest round in LPGA Tour history with a 13-under 59, becoming the first woman to break the 60 barrier, matching three men on the PGA Tour and two others on the Nike Tour in official competition.
During that round, she had 13 birdies, no bogeys and just 25 putts on the 6,459-yard course. She missed only one fairway, reached every green in regulation, and her longest par putt was 3½  feet.
In 2005, she showed her playful side, winning a bet with Fred Funk at the Skins Game in La Quinta, Calif.
Funk had told Sorenstam prior to the event that he would wear a skirt for an entire hole if she outdrove him.
She did just that, with a 278-yard drive that beat Funk's 271. From her bag, she brandished a pink, flowered skirt, which Funk wore over his pants, with the legs rolled up.
She won LPGA Tour player of the year a record eight times, including five straight seasons until Ochoa ended the streak in 2006. Sorenstam was ineffective most of 2007, the first time in 12 years she failed to win on the LPGA Tour, as she recovered from back and neck injuries.
She won the first tournament of this year in Hawaii, picked up a playoff victory in South Florida three weeks ago, then continued a slow rise in the world rankings toward Ochoa with a dominant victory in Virginia.
Sorenstam still faces a large deficit to reclaim the No. 1 ranking from Ochoa, although LPGA Tour players measure themselves more on winning the money title and the points-based player of the year award. Those are easily within reach for Sorenstam with the season not even half over.
She said Ochoa's ascendance did not make her want to continue playing.
"Lorena is playing some fantastic golf, but that doesn't motive me to keep on going," she said. "I enjoy playing with Lorena. She's definitely taking the tour to a higher level. She was a lot of fun last week, and I think we're going to have more of those type of events in the coming months."
Sorenstam's 72 victories put her third on the tour's career list behind Kathy Whitworth (88) and Mickey Wright (82). She is tied for fourth in career majors, five behind record-setter Patty Berg.
But those kind of marks never appealed to Sorenstam, even when she was winning at least 10 times during a season. She often talked about stopping sooner than people imagined to pursue other interests, whether that meant her affinity for cooking or fitness.
Sorenstam opened a golf academy last year near her home in Orlando, Fla., also launching her brand ("Annika") and a Web site. Sorenstam plans to marry next year.
"I'm just very happy with life," she said. "You start thinking, 'What else is more important in life, and what else do I want to achieve on the golf course?' It's been a year or so where I've just been very content and I felt like when I came back from the injury, I've proven to myself that I can do it and it's a special feeling."
She is not the first LPGA Tour star to retire early. Wright, whom many regard as the best, stopped playing a full schedule when she was 34 and won the last of her 82 tournaments at age 37.
At the end of the '07 season, Sorenstam believed she had arrived at "the back nine of my career."
"I've done a lot, and I'm satisfied in a lot of things," she said. "I've achieved so much more than I ever thought I could."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MEXICO CITY -- Lorena Ochoa of Mexico says a new LPGA Tour policy requiring players to be effective in English starting in 2009 is "a little drastic."
Ochoa, the No. 1 player in women's golf, says golfers are better judged by their performance.
She was asked at a charity event in her hometown of Guadalajara on Tuesday if she thought the new policy discriminated against international players.
"That is a a very strong word. I wouldn't want to use it," said Ochoa, who speaks English. "But I do think it is a little drastic."
There are 121 international players from 26 countries on the LPGA Tour, including 45 players from South Korea.
While some thought the rule might be aimed at the Koreans, Ochoa said, "I think they are making an effort and they are trying to communicate more with the players, I think they are doing enough."
The LPGA will require players to speak English during pro-ams, trophy presentations and media interviews starting in 2009, with players who have been LPGA members for two years facing suspension if they can't pass an oral evaluation of English skills. The rule is effective immediately for new players.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -- The LPGA Tour has become the latest pro sports organization to feel the crunch of the global economic downturn.
Even while insisting next year will be "solidly profitable," the LPGA Tour announced Wednesday that it will offer three fewer tournaments in 2009 than this year, all because of sponsorship loss. Prize money also will dip by about $5 million.
SemGroup, which sponsored one tournament this year, entered bankruptcy this summer, and some other sponsors chose to spend elsewhere.
"It's no secret that the road ahead, particularly 2009, is going to test our mettle," LPGA commissioner Carolyn Bivens said.
She added that the LPGA Tour is confronting challenges facing not only "other sports and entertainment organizations, but by every business enterprise of any kind in all corners around the world."
In recent weeks, the NBA has announced layoffs and the closing of its Los Angeles office, several NASCAR teams have laid off staff to cut costs, and many other sports organizations have looked into belt-tightening. Golf relies heavily on sponsor dollars and clearly isn't immune to the economic crisis, but Bivens predicted the LPGA Tour would make money in 2009.
"It's a scary time for everybody," said 2007 U.S. Women's Open champion Cristie Kerr, who has not lost any of her personal endorsement deals. "My whole outlook on that is you've just got to be able to ride the waves."
The 2009 schedule released Wednesday has 31 events -- 20 in the United States and 11 internationally -- not including the Solheim Cup. Among the tournaments off the future schedule is this week's ADT Championship, which has a $1 million first-place prize and closes the 2008 schedule.
"All I do is give them the best golf course in Florida," said real estate and business mogul Donald Trump, whose Trump International course hosts this week's ADT. "It is sad, because this is one of the great tournaments. The women consider it, after the U.S. Open, to be their biggest tournament."
Purses for next year will be about $55 million, about $5.25 million down from 2008. The tour announced $53.4 million in purses Wednesday; the Ginn Open in Reunion, Fla., which had a $2.6 million prize pool this year, has not yet determined what it will pay out in 2009.
"The state of the global economy and the economic crisis we're all facing has resulted in a slightly different tournament landscape," Bivens said. "It's not something that comes as a surprise."
Besides the ADT, other events not continuing over sponsorship issues include the Fields Open in Hawaii and Ginn Tribute in South Carolina, which announced its shutdown in August.
An event in Thailand running from Feb. 26 to March 1 is being added, part of what amounts to two international swings toward the beginning and end of the yearlong schedule.
The Safeway International, which has been held in Arizona, also is gone over a sponsorship issue and will be replaced by the LPGA International, expected to be held somewhere in the Phoenix area.
Also missing from the new schedule are the after-season events, such as the Lexus Cup and Wendy's 3-Tour Challenge. Bivens said those unofficial-money events will continue being discussed "in the coming months."
Next year will be one of transition for the LPGA, which is about to lose its biggest draw in Annika Sorenstam, the 72-time winner who is "stepping away" from the game to pursue family and business interests after this week's ADT Championship.
"I don't think I could have timed it any worse," said Sorenstam, who has seen the markets and her portfolio shrink since her decision to retire six months ago.
The LPGA Tour's existing television deals expire after 2009, making the task of filling schedules for 2010 and beyond even more daunting.
"I wish this economic downturn had waited one more year," Bivens said. "I wish we had one more year. But I'm grateful we had the past three."
The average per-tournament purse of about $1.77 million remains largely unchanged.
"The LPGA Tour is definitely in a tough spot right now in terms of sponsors," said Morgan Pressel, a two-time LPGA winner. "But I don't think it's just the LPGA Tour. I think the PGA Tour is going to see some of it as well with all the financial companies that they're associated with. ... It's just a tough time right now."
Next year's LPGA Tour schedule begins in Hawaii, then heads to Thailand, Singapore and Mexico. The tour does not return to the U.S. until the Phoenix event March 26-29, details of which have yet to be released.
Some events shifted slots from the 2008 schedule, others changed sponsors and details are still being finalized about the Samsung World Championship, which was in Half Moon Bay, Calif., this year.
One quirk to the 2009 schedule: The U.S. Women's Open starts July 9, followed by the Evian Masters, the British Open and the Solheim Cup. So it's possible that a player who isn't qualified for those events wouldn't play between the Jamie Farr Owens Corning Classic (which ends July 5) and the Safeway Classic (which starts Aug. 28).
"Given what could have been the potential negative economic impact on our schedule, we view this as a barometer of stability, appeal and value for our players and our property," Bivens said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
J.P. Hayes says anyone else on the PGA Tour in his situation "would have done the same thing."
During the second stage of the PGA Tour qualifying tournament last week in Texas, Hayes discovered that on two shots on one hole, he had unwittingly used a prototype golf ball not approved for competition by the United States Golf Association.
No one would have known. And a full-time spot on the PGA Tour in 2009 was on the line. But Hayes, honoring the tradition of a game where the players police themselves, turned himself in and was disqualified.
"It's extremely disappointing," Hayes said, according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. "I keep thinking I'm going to wake up and this is going to be a bad nightmare."
It happened a week ago, at Deerwood Country Club in Kingwood, Texas.
On his 12th hole of the first round, Hayes' caddie reached into his golf bag and tossed a ball to Hayes, who played two shots -- a tee and a chip onto the green -- and marked his ball. At that point he realized the ball he was playing was not the same model with which he started the round -- by rule, a two-stroke penalty.
"I realized there was a penalty and I called an official over," Hayes said, according to the newspaper. "He said the penalty was two shots and that I had to finish the hole with that ball and then change back to the original ball."
Hayes shot a 74 Wednesday and a 71 on Thursday, putting him in good shape to finish in the top 20 and advance to the final qualifying stage in December.
But on Thursday night in his hotel room, Hayes realized that the errant golf ball might not have been on the approved list.
"It was a Titleist prototype, and somehow it had gotten into my bag," he said, according to the Journal Sentinel. "It had been four weeks since Titleist gave me some prototype balls and I tested them. I have no idea how or why it was still in there."
Hayes had a choice: He could have said nothing and kept playing, with no one aware of his mistake. Or he could turn himself in and let his mistake cost him a 2009 PGA Tour card.
He chose the latter.
"I called an official in Houston that night and said, 'I think I may have a problem,'" Hayes said. "He said they'd call Titleist the next day. I pretty much knew at that point I was going to be disqualified."
As for his decision to turn himself in?
"I would say everybody out here [on the PGA Tour] would have done the same thing," Hayes said, according to the report.
Hayes, 43, is refusing to blame his caddie for the error, saying he should have spotted the errant ball because it did not have a model name on the seam.
"[The caddie] kind of wanted to take some of the blame, but he knows I'm anal about my equipment," Hayes said, according to the report. "I go through my bag every night. I want to know what's in there. It's almost therapeutic for me."
According to the report, Hayes said that if the hole had been a par-4 or a par-5, he would have known he had the wrong ball right away, because he uses the label to help him align his driver on tee shots.
"But it was a par-3 and I don't use the label to line up on par-3s," he said, according to the Journal Sentinel. "It was my mistake. I had no choice but to take my medicine."
Hayes has two career PGA Tour victories, his last coming in 2002. He was playing in the second stage of the tour's Q-school tourney because he finished outside of the top 150 on the money list in 2008.
He earned $312,152 this season, making just seven cuts in 26 events. He was 176th on the money list -- the worst showing of his career.
But Hayes has more than $7 million in career earnings. He expects he still will be able to play 10 to 12 lesser tournaments in 2009, thanks to his status as a veteran player and past tourney champion, as well as sponsors' exemptions, according to the report.
"I'm kind of at a point in my career where if I have a light year, it might be a good thing," he said, according to the Journal Sentinel. "I'm looking forward to playing less and spending more time with my family.
"It's not the end of the world. It will be fine. It is fine."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Paul Azinger's last victory on the PGA Tour came in 2000, and until he took on the captaincy of the U.S. Ryder Cup team, he kept a pretty low profile.
That all changed with the U.S. victory over Europe in September.
"I was out of the spotlight for a long time, but now I can't go anywhere without people recognizing me and acknowledging the Ryder Cup," Azinger said. "And I've had more people say thank you than congratulations."
Perhaps it is such a reaction, along with the fact that there isn't a long list of candidates ready to succeed him, which has Azinger open to the idea of returning to the post in 2010, when the U.S. tries to retain the Cup in Wales.
"It hasn't been offered to me, and it's not really up to me at this point," Azinger said Wednesday in a phone interview. "I'm not lobbying for it. I think the PGA of America has the decision to make, if they want to offer it to me or if they feel there are other guys who deserve a crack at it. I'm not sure exactly how they are thinking.
"I've expressed to them, if it were offered to me, I would sure think about it. It's kind of up them, it's not up to me. Even if they offered it to me, I'm not sure what my answer would be. I have to play it close to the vest. I don't want to look like I'm lobbying for it, but I don't want to completely rule it out. I know that's not a good answer."
Azinger, who turns 49 in January, is a 12-time PGA Tour winner who won the 1993 PGA Championship and played on four U.S. Ryder Cup teams.
Two years ago, he was named captain for the matches at Valhalla, and accepted the job only upon the condition that there be changes to the team selection process. Azinger changed the points structure, and received four captain's selections (rather than two).
He also came up with a team-building plan that divided the 12-man squad into three groups of four players who practiced and were paired together during the matches. The U.S. won for the first time since 1999 and only the second time in the past seven Ryder Cups.
"I loved that role as captain," he said. "I think my handprint is on the Ryder Cup for a long time. The selection process worked. The team-building concept, breaking the team into small groups  it's stuff that's never been done, I'm sure. They sold out for me in this concept and bonded in small groups  I think it would work again. I believe in it.
"We had a lot of advantages at Valhalla that are going to be given up when you go overseas, as far as knowing the golf course, setting up the course. There's a time zone change. There are going to be different players. You're at a disadvantage.
"The challenge of that intrigues me, I guess."
One of his players from the '09 team is intrigued as well.
"Zinger gave us a great model for success,'' Phil Mickelson said in a conference call Wednesday. "Rather than stray from it, I think it would be a great idea to have him return. But I don't want to interfere with the PGA of America and their decision-making process because the captaincy has always been a wonderful way to validate a player's career. It's such an honor and a highlight, so I don't want to detract from the PGA's process. But I thought Paul's model for success was a great one.''
PGA of America officials have said they are in no hurry to make a decision on naming a captain, as they are still enjoying the Valhalla victory. And, if the current process remains in place, no points can be earned for the 2010 team until the Masters in April.
The U.S. has not had back-to-back captains since Ben Hogan in 1947-49. Jack Nicklaus was the last to captain more than one team, doing so in 1983 and 1987.
But the PGA of America does not have a lot of options, either. Corey Pavin, 49, a 15-time tour winner including the 1995 U.S. Open, is the most likely successor to Azinger. Pavin played on three Ryder Cup teams, interviewed for the 2006 captaincy and served as an assistant to Tom Lehman that year.
Others who have been mentioned include Fred Couples and Davis Love, but Couples is out of the running for 2010 because he is the U.S. Presidents Cup captain next year. Love, 44, who is coming off his 20th career victory at the Children's Miracle Network Classic, said he wants to try to play on the 2010 team, with his eye on the captaincy down the road.
In the aftermath of the Ryder Cup victory back in September, Azinger dismissed the notion of returning, even while his players chanted "Zinger in '10, Zinger in '10." But a couple of months of letting it soak in, with no apparent rush to name a new captain, at least have him weighing the idea of continuing.
"I just want to make sure it's understood that I'm not lobbying to get this," Azinger said. "There are basically two scenarios, and it's very intriguing to have one be me. But I support them whatever they decide."
Bob Harig covers golf for ESPN.com. He can be reached at BobHarig@gmail.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HONG KONG -- A Hong Kong teenager became the youngest player ever to make the cut at a European Tour event on Friday, breaking the record set by current world No. 2 Sergio Garcia.
Fourteen-year-old Jason Hak shot a 70 in each of the first two rounds at his home tournament, the $2.5 million Hong Kong Open. He just made the even-par 140 cut at the end of the second round by drilling a 150-yard approach onto the 18th green and holing a 10-foot putt for birdie.
Garcia was 15 years, 46 days old when he made the cut at the Turespana Open Mediterrania in Valencia, Spain, in 1995.
Hak, who is 14 years, 304 days old, has no immediate plans to turn professional.
"I have no ideas of turning pro because it's only one tournament here," Hak said. "It doesn't really tell the whole story."
According to Agence France-Presse, Hak, who was born in Hong Kong but lives near Orlando, Fla., said Garcia was one of his favorite players growing up -- although his idol was Tiger Woods.
But Hak said he's not thinking about becoming Asia's version of Woods, according to AFP.
"No, I never think about that," he said, according to AFP. "I just try to play my best and not think about that much but control everything and keep it steady."
The teenager said he's enjoyed playing in a star-studded field that included several former major winners and "said hi" to two-time Masters champion, Germany's Bernhard Langer.
"I play a lot of junior golf. I won a couple of them but this is the biggest tournament I've played. It's a good experiment for me," he said, according to AFP.
The Associated Press contributed to this story.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
A victory on the PGA Tour earns a player many things. A two-year exemption. Hundreds of thousands of dollars. And an invite to the season-opening Mercedes Benz Championship. But none of the top four players in the world rankings will be showing their faces for the Jan. 8-11 event.

Tiger Woods, Sergio Garcia, Phil Mickelson and Padraig Harrington are all skipping the Hawaii stop at Kapalua Resort, ESPN.com's Jason Sobel has learned. Of the 37 eligible participants, 33 are expected to tee it up at Kapalua next week.

Woods, who is recovering from knee surgery and ranked No. 1 in the world, hasn't played the PGA Tour's first event of the season since 2005 when he finished tied for third. He won the event in 1997 and 2000, both times in playoffs. Garcia, who recently overtook Mickelson as No. 2 in the world, has competed four times and won in his first appearance in 2002.

Of the four no shows, Mickelson has the most appearances with seven, including victories in 1994 and 1998 while Harrington, ranked No. 4 in the world, has never played in the Mercedes Benz Championship.

Jason Sobel is a golf writer for ESPN.com. He can be reached at Jason.Sobel@espn3.com.




To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii -- Geoff Ogilvy felt his game was still sharp after winning in Australia last month. It must have been for him to play bogey-free Thursday and beat his best score at Kapalua by five shots.
Ogilvy opened the PGA Tour season by saving par on the last hole -- the only time he got in trouble all day -- for a 6-under 67 that gave him a one-shot lead in the Mercedes-Benz Championship, a score that only surprised him because of the location.
"I haven't shot very many good rounds around this course, so maybe that's a surprising thing," said Ogilvy, who had not broken 72 in his previous two trips to the winners-only tournament. "But the fact that I'm playing OK is not surprising."
Ogilvy won the Australian PGA Championship and tied for sixth in the Australian Open, and he was just as crisp with his game in taking the first-round lead over Ernie Els, Kenny Perry and fast-closing Johnson Wagner.
With only moderate wind on a Plantation course that Ogilvy refers to as "extreme golf," eight players broke 70 and 20 players in the 33-man field broke par.
FedEx Cup champion Vijay Singh, who will have knee surgery next week, was not among them. He made double bogey on the opening hole and rallied for a 73. Defending champion Daniel Chopra was headed for a round in the 80s until birdies on the two holes for a 79.
That Ogilvy was atop the leaderboard was surprising only because his average score in eight previous rounds was 73.875. But he kept practicing during his brief respite at home in Arizona, and it showed.
"We only finished Australian Open three week ago," Ogilvy said. "And three weeks isn't enough to get rusty."
Els arrived in Maui having played only once in the last six weeks, and that worked well for him. In his first time to Kapalua in four years, he made only one blunder -- a tee shot into the hazard on the par-5 15th -- to get his season off to a solid start.
Wagner, one of a dozen newcomers to the winners-only Mercedes with his victory in the Shell Houston Open, wasn't even in the picture until a birdie-birdie-eagle finish. Perry joined the group at 68 with a birdie on the last hole.
Davis Love III, who won the final event of 2008 at Disney, and Ryuji Imada were in the group at 69. Imada ran off seven straight birdies starting at No. 6 -- one short of the PGA Tour record -- but followed that streak with consecutive bogeys.
As for all the hype over the youngsters?
Anthony Kim wore an Oklahoma hat on the first hole while playing with Florida alum Camilo Villegas before taking it off, and it took awhile for his game to arrive. Kim had a 71, while Villegas had to rally for a 74.
It was an idyllic start, as often is the case at Kapalua, with manageable wind, occasional light showers, sunshine, rainbows and plenty of optimism about the new season.
"I want to have a good season, like everybody," Els said.
The Big Easy was off to a phenomenal start with an eagle on the par-5 fifth hole and a 31 on the front nine. He was 6 under through 11 holes, but played the rest of the way at 1 over -- despite playing two par 5s -- and had to settle for a 68.
"I would have taken it before I teed off," Els said. "But I'm a little hot under the collar right now."
He hooked his tee shot into the hazard on the 15th, had to take a penalty drop and hit out sideways, and he did well to make bogey. Els had a 4-iron into the green on the par-5 18th, but left it out to the right to avoid trouble on the left, and missed a 10-foot birdie.
Ogilvy also finished with a par, but was all smiles.
He was rarely in trouble, and the only time he had to get up-and-down was on the par 5s. But with a 3-iron to the 18th green, he pulled it into the hazard, and after a lengthy discussion where to drop, he was faced with a 50-yard pitch, which he hit to 4 feet for par.
Hall of Fame quarterback John Elway hit the ceremonial tee shot to begin the season, a 350-yard drive that speaks to the elevation, wind and the grain in the grass that makes the Plantation course unlike any other they will play all year.
Wagner is among a dozen newcomers to Kapalua, but he arrived last Friday and quickly became acquainted.
"I've played Saturday and Sunday, every day I've been here, and fell in love with the golf course," Wagner said. "It's early, but I feel really comfortable out here."
He didn't look terribly comfortable on the greens, which can takes years of experience to figure out the slope and grain. But it all came together at the end, with a 10-foot birdie down the slope on the 16th, a 25-foot birdie across the grain on the 17th and his 18-foot eagle on the final hole.
"It was a great finish, and turned a 71 into 68 real quick," Johnson said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii -- Paradise is no place to panic, although Geoff Ogilvy had reason Sunday at Kapalua.
Playing some of the best golf of his career, he took a six-shot lead into the final round of the season-opening Mercedes-Benz Championship. After eight holes, his lead was down to one over a hard-charging Anthony Kim.
"It's an uncomfortable feeling to know you're six shots out in front and you're almost back to tied," Ogilvy said after his wire-to-wire victory. "You can just imagine what people are thinking. It's not a very nice feeling."
What followed put everyone at ease, starting with Ogilvy.
He hit a 3-iron from 223 yards into 20 feet below the hole, then made the eagle putt to restore his margin. Just like that, Ogilvy had everything under control. He birdied five of the next six holes and sailed home to a 5-under 68 for a six-shot victory.
"Something made him mad, I guess, somewhere coming up on the ninth fairway," Davis Love III said. "And then I guess he made eagle and went nuts."
Ogilvy joined Ernie Els and Vijay Singh as the only wire-to-wire winners at Kapalua since the tournament moved here in 1999, having the outright lead over the final 58 holes.
"I enjoyed the last 2½ hours more than I enjoyed the first two hours," Ogilvy said. "Once I got through nine, I really enjoyed every hole. I felt a lot better about everything."
Kim couldn't keep up, making only one birdie on the back nine until he finished with a 3-wood that stopped inches from the cup on the 18th for a tap-in eagle and a 67. He tied for second with Love, who birdied the 18th for a 67.
"I knew he was just teasing me for a little while there, and he was going to make some birdies," Kim said. "Unfortunately, I couldn't."
It was the fifth PGA Tour victory for Ogilvy, adding to his U.S. Open title in 2006 and a pair of World Golf Championships. He finished at 24-under 268, earned $1.12 million and moved up to No. 6 in the world.
"When Geoff plays well, it never looks like he's going to hit a bad shot," Adam Scott said.
But there were a few too many on the front nine, which was no walk on the beach.
Ogilvy had made only one bogey in the first three rounds, but doubled that count after this first two holes Sunday.
With the Plantation course soft from overnight rain that lasted into the morning, Ogilvy missed the fairway to the right on the opening hole and couldn't reach the green, missing an 18-foot par putt. He found a bunker with his tee shot on the second hole, blasted out to about 6 feet and missed that putt.
Just like that, his lead was down to three shots over Kim, who birdied two of the opening three holes.
And even after Ogilvy appeared to steady himself with an up-and-down birdie on the par-5 fifth, followed by another good pitch to 5 feet for birdie on the sixth, he was grinding.
He hit the wrong club on the seventh, came up short and took bogey. Then he missed his target some 20 yards to the right on the par-3 eighth and took another bogey.
"I've never had a six-shot lead before. It's a pretty uncomfortable feeling, to be honest with you," Ogilvy said. "I got to the green and saw I had a one-shot lead -- I figured it was mostly gone -- and it felt like a normal tournament again. I just told myself, 'It's a great spot to be after 63 holes, get on with it."
And he did.
After watching Kim made another birdie to go out in 32, Ogilvy hit 3-iron to the front edge of the green and rolled in the eagle putt. That put his lead back to three, and he didn't come close to dropping another shot the rest of the round.
"From then on, I was a different person," Ogilvy said. "I played almost the best I had all week the next six holes. It was the right time for a great shot, and I happened to make the putt, which was a big bonus."
Justin Leonard went 50 holes without a bogey until dropping a shot on the 13th hole. He shot 70 to finish fifth.
All of them were playing for second on the back after Ogilvy rediscovered his swing and his focus with the eagle on the par-5 ninth. The 31-year-old Australian followed that with a 20-foot birdie putt on the 10th, then took advantage of the easy holes with birdies.
Starting on No. 12, where he hit 9-iron into 5 feet, Ogilvy made four straight birdies inside 8 feet, and played conservatively on the last few holes. It was a scenic and peaceful walk as he walked downhill the last two holes toward victory, the Pacific on the horizon and the sun making Molokai appear closer than the 10 miles across the Pailolo Channel.
Scott tied for 18th in the 33-man field, but his week at Kapalua wasn't all bad. After some correspondence, Scott met up with actress Kate Hudson, who was in his gallery and with him at dinner. "I'm not here with her, but I know Kate," Scott said. "We met here. We have a mutual friend." ... Ogilvy became the eighth straight international player to win at Kapalua. No other PGA Tour event has gone that long without an American winner. ... Of the 12 newcomers to Kapalua, Johnson Wagner was the only player in the top 10.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SAN DIEGO -- Camilo Villegas seems to play his best golf when Tiger Woods isn't around to defend a title.
Villegas holed out for an eagle early in his round and made a string of birdies late for a 9-under 63 on the easier North Course at Torrey Pines, giving him a three-shot lead Thursday in the Buick Invitational as he goes for a bizarre hat trick.
A victory this week would be his third straight at a tournament where Woods was the defending champion.
Villegas won the BMW Championship and Tour Championship last fall to close out the FedEx Cup portion of the season -- both won by Woods the previous year -- and he got off to a blazing start on a cloudy, chilly day along the Pacific bluffs.
He hit a lob wedge over the bunker and into the hole for eagle on the par-4 second hole to quickly put his name atop the leaderboard, then built his lead with three birdies in a four-hole stretch on the back nine.
Davis Love III, coming up on two pivotal weeks as he tries to get into the Accenture Match Play Championship, and Aaron Baddeley each shot 66 on the North while playing in the same group.
The best score on the South Course, site of the U.S. Open last summer, belonged to Scott Sterling and Matthew Goggin at 69. Given the disparity of these courses, the leaderboard doesn't sort itself out until everyone has played both sides.
Phil Mickelson, a three-time winner of the Buick Invitational, put together a solid round of 70 on the South Course with a few big par saves, including a 15-footer on his final hole.
British Open and PGA champion Padraig Harrington, making his PGA Tour debut, started strong with three birdies on the opening four holes of the North Course, but a four-putt double bogey on the 17th sent him to a 71.
Woods is the four-time defending champion at the Buick Invitational, but still is recovering from season-ending surgery on his left knee -- a week after his U.S. Open playoff victory.
"I'm glad he's not here," Villegas said. "He plays pretty good around here, I can tell you that."
Villegas wasn't too shabby on the North Course, which was more than 3½ strokes easier than the South, but still no bargain with blustery, cool conditions, along with greens that were firmer than usual with no water on them in anticipation of rain this weekend.
Coming off a missed cut last week in the FBR Open, Villegas opened with a simple birdie on the par-5 first, then made a mistake with his tee shot on the 326-yard second hole by hitting his drive to the right, 50 yards from the flag with a bunker in the way.
Using a new 63-degree sand wedge, he popped it up over the sand and never saw it go in the hole.
"I had a decent lie," Villegas said. "I just puffed it up in the air, and I knew it was good, but I didn't see the ball go in. My caddie said, 'It went in.' Early in the round, not much of a reaction."
He made some big putts on the back nine, including a 25-foot birdie on the 14th with a big break to the left. That followed a chip that bounced harder than he expected, part of the difficult of playing the firm greens.
It should get tougher Friday.
The average score on the South Course was 75.37, which is why Pat Perez was smiling after a 73. "That's like 69," he said.
Villegas had the right attitude going into his second round.
"The rough is up. It's tough. It was very firm during the pro-am," he said. "If it rains a little, it's going to get softer, the rough is going to get a little more severe. Who knows, man? Just go out there and hit some shots."
Love is at No. 58 in the world ranking, needing to stay inside the top 64 after next week at Pebble Beach to qualify for Match Play, then keep going into the top 50 to get into another World Golf Championship and eventually the Masters.
He was pleased with a 66, for no other reason than it kept him near the top of the leaderboard going to the South Course.
"You've got to get off to a good start no matter what," Love said. "Because three rounds on the South will bring you down."
Mickelson missed the cut at the FBR Open last week in his 2009 debut, but has a good omen on his side. The last two times he missed the cut on the West Coast, he won the following week. Lefty made a collection of good par saves, but got away with a mental mistake at the end of his round.
He decided to hit driver to get to the front of the green, setting up an easy up-and-down for birdie, but he couldn't go right. And he went right, into a face of a bunker. From there, he hit into another bad lie in a greenside bunker, and did well to blast out to 15 feet. But he made the putt, and all was well.
"It wasn't the smartest play there," he said. "I should have hit 3-wood down there and taken 6 out of play. But that's what happens. I was fortunate to walk away with par."
Divots: Pete Bender, the caddie for Baddeley, is back to work. Bender missed nearly a year recovering from cancer in the throat area and looked happy to be back. ... Six players in the 156-man field failed to break 80, including Eric Axley at 85.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Look ... who's ... back.
Tiger Woods announced Thursday on his Web site that he will play in next week's WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship in Arizona. It will be his first tournament since having reconstructive ACL surgery after winning the U.S. Open last June.
With the birth of Woods' son, Charlie, on Feb. 8, speculation had intensified about Woods' return.
"I'm now ready to play again," Woods said as part of a five-paragraph statement posted on tigerwoods.com.
The Match Play Championship begins Wednesday in Tucson, Ariz., where Woods will end his 253-day break from competition.
The timing could not be better for the PGA Tour, which has seen television ratings plunge after the world's No. 1 player had to miss the second half of the 2008 season, including two majors, the Ryder Cup and the FedEx Cup playoffs.
"We are delighted that Tiger is returning to competition and look forward to watching him compete next week," commissioner Tim Finchem said in a statement.
The last shot Woods hit was a short par putt on the 91st hole of the U.S. Open at Torrey Pines, where he defeated Rocco Mediate in a playoff to capture his 14th major, which Woods described as "probably the best ever" under the circumstances.
He had surgery after the Masters last year to repair cartilage damage in his left knee, and while preparing to return for the U.S. Open, suffered a double stress fracture in his left leg.
He limped badly over the final few days of the U.S. Open, later saying the swelling was so bad at night that he couldn't see his kneecap. A week after winning, he had reconstructive surgery, the third operation on his left knee in five years.
Woods played with longtime friend and neighbor John Cook, a member of the Champions Tour, this week and Cook said he liked what he saw in Woods' game.
"From what I saw yesterday, he could step right in anywhere, just like he never left," Cook said Wednesday.
What to expect?
"He's human," swing coach Hank Haney said. "He has played one tournament in 10 months. I would think he would be a little rusty, but I really don't know what to expect. Nothing with Tiger ever surprises me."
Woods will be under greater scrutiny than usual when he returns at Match Play. The eight-month break is his longest ever, and there are questions of rust and whether he had to modify his swing after surgery.
Haney said the swing hasn't changed, but there might be one difference.
"He's working on the same stuff that he's always been working on, but he'll be able to do it with a strong leg now," Haney said. "It will be a little different in the finish because his knee doesn't give way."
Woods is a three-time winner of the Accenture Match Play Championship, but no tournament is more unpredictable. Even on two good legs, Woods once lost in the first round to unheralded Peter O'Malley of Australia.
His return could last only one day. He could also advance to the weekend, where Woods might face as many as 36 holes a day.
"I didn't think he would return at Match Play because the media would be all over him if he lost in the first round," Stuart Appleby said. "But if Tiger lost in the first round, it would mean nothing to him. He'll be looking for competitive rounds."
Woods also has an endorsement contract with Accenture, and he was to be in Marana, Ariz., next week for a corporate dinner.
Kenny Perry believes expectations will be minimal because this is Woods' first tournament in eight months and match play is known for its fickle nature.
"I think it's awesome," Perry said. "The economy is down. We need something to boost us up. And there's going to be a gazillion reporters there, so it will be fun to be around. That place is going to come to life."
He also figures that Woods will do his part.
"I think he'll be ready to rock," Perry said. "When he comes back, he's always raring to go. He must be spittin' nails right now. I think he'll be better than ever. He'll probably kick our butts like crazy. Let's face it. People play differently when they're playing him."
Unless someone withdraws -- Justin Rose is one possibility because his wife is expecting their first child any day -- Woods will play Brendan Jones of Australia in the first round.
Woods was playing some of the best golf of his career when he had reconstructive knee surgery. He had won nine of his last 12 tournaments and did not finish worse than fifth during that stretch.
Information from ESPN.com golf writer Bob Harig and The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ORLANDO, Fla. -- Not long after stepping away from golf, Annika Sorenstam is stepping into motherhood.
Sorenstam announced on her blog Thursday that she and her husband, Mike McGee, are expecting their first child this fall. Sorenstam retired from the LPGA Tour last year after 72 victories and 10 majors, saying she wanted to start a business and a family.
"We have had a lot of exciting changes in the past few months, and adding a new addition to our family later this fall will certainly be at the top of that list," Sorenstam said. "We are absolutely thrilled and look forward to this new chapter of our lives."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- Pro golfer John Daly claimed a Florida newspaper libeled him in a column suggesting he failed "the scoundrel sniff test," but a judge disagreed.
Duval County Circuit Judge Hugh Carithers dismissed Daly's libel lawsuit Monday and granted the Florida Times-Union's request for summary judgment. He ruled that former columnist Mike Freeman's statements were either true or constitutionally protected opinion.
Daly had sued in 2005, alleging a column by Freeman written during The Player's Championship that year defamed him.
Freeman's column said: "How does Daly not fail the scoundrel sniff test with fans despite possessing definite Thug Life qualifications. Look at the Daly blog. Domestic violence accusations? Yup. Substance abuse issues? Unfortunately, three different kids from three different moms, making him the Shawn Kemp of golf? Yes. A former wife indicted for laundering illegal drug profits? Roger that."
Carithers wrote in his opinion that the alleged defamatory statements were opinions based upon disclosed facts.
"The only possible basis for a defamation action would be if Daly proved that one of the four underlying facts was false, but there is no genuine dispute with respect to any of the underlying facts," Carithers wrote.
The judge also cited constitutional protections against libel.
"Under the First Amendment, public figures in defamation lawsuits are required to prove actual malice by clear and convincing evidence," Carithers wrote, adding, "there is no evidence of actual malice, much less 'clear and convincing' evidence."
Times-Union Editor Frank Denton praised the judge for reinforcing the First Amendment and established law.
"This has been a long and unnecessary process, but in the end it supports the importance of a free and unfettered press," Denton said.
Telephone messages left with Daly's agent and attorney seeking comment were not immediately returned.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HAYWARD, Calif. -- Australia's Michael Sim won the Stonebrae Classic on Sunday for his second career Nationwide Tour title, closing with a 7-under 64 for a six-stroke victory over countryman Cameron Percy and John Kimbell.
The 24-year-old Sim, also the 2006 PalmettoPride Classic winner, had an 18-under 266 total on the TPC San Francisco Bay at Stonebrae. He earned $108,000 in the inaugural event to jump from seventh to first on the money list with $182,017.
"I had a really good feeling that I was going to win today," Sim said after his third top-four finish in five events this year. "I felt all week like this was my tournament to win. My swing feels better than it's ever been. I didn't have a score in mind today. It was just flowing. I was really in control of my game."
Sim played the front nine in 5-under 31, birdieing the final four holes and five of the last six to take a four-stroke lead. He birdied the par-4 14th, made a 3-foot eagle putt on the par-5 15th, dropped a stroke on 16 and closed with two pars. He opened with rounds of 71, 64 and 67 to take a one-stroke lead over Matt Every into the final 18.
Percy and Kimbell shot 68s. Every (71) and Martin Piller (70) tied for fourth at 10 under, and Andrew Buckle (66), Jeff Gallagher (69), Craig Barlow (69) and Nick Flanagan (69) followed at 8 under.
Sim, the top-ranked amateur in the world in 2005, led the field in fairways hit and tied for second in greens in regulation.
"My ball-striking this year has been fabulous," Sim said. "This is the best that's ever been in my career. It's higher now than when I was No. 1 as an am It's so much more consistent than it's ever been. I have a lot more trust in my swing."
The top 25 on the final money list will earn 2010 PGA Tour cards.
"I'm off to a good start this year, for sure," Sim said. "I set my goals high this year. I set a goal to lead the money list. I'm not looking at where the 25th-place guy finished last year."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Standing on the 18th tee, Sean O'Hair asked his caddie where he stood in the Quail Hollow Championship and got word that he had a one-shot lead.
"Over who?" O'Hair replied.
It wasn't Tiger Woods. It might not have mattered.
Five weeks after blowing a five-shot lead at Bay Hill against the world's No. 1 player, O'Hair was determined to keep putting himself in contention until he figured out how to win down the stretch.
That time came Sunday against one of the strongest fields of the year, with Woods in his rearview mirror.
O'Hair, 26, closed with a 3-under 69 -- the only player from the last nine groups to break 70 -- and made enough key birdies that finishing with consecutive bogeys on the two toughest holes at Quail Hollow didn't cost him.
He wound up with a one-shot victory over Lucas Glover and Bubba Watson to become only the third player in his 20s with at least three PGA Tour victories. The others are Sergio Garcia and Adam Scott.
"Losing [stunk] at Bay Hill," O'Hair said. "Even though it's tough to lose like that, to lose a five-shot lead against Tiger, you still learn from it. I talked to my coach. I talked to my caddie, Paul [Tesori]. And we just all said all I have to do is keep putting myself in those situations, and at some point I'm going to learn how to win. It's just nice to win as quickly as I did after Bay Hill."
O'Hair took the outright lead with a two-putt birdie from 70 feet on the 15th, then seized control with an 8-iron to 8 feet for birdie on the 16th hole, allowing him some room for error on the frightening finishing holes.
"I just hit it as hard as I could and tried to flight it," O'Hair said, "and hit really a perfect golf shot."
Glover, who bogeyed the par-3 17th, had a chance to force a playoff until his approach bounded over the firm green and his birdie chip turned away to the left. He closed with a 71 to join Watson (70) in a tie for second.
Woods struggled with his game throughout the final round, but he still had a chance to tie for the lead when he drove the par-4 14th green and had an eagle putt from just inside 25 feet. He three-putted for par, then failed to birdie the par-5 15th. Woods finished with 10 straight pars for a 72 to finish alone in fourth, two shots behind.
"I had my opportunity there at 14. I made a mistake there," Woods said. "I knew the green was baked out. It was downwind, and I didn't heed my own warning, and ended up putting too hard."
Watson, who has never won on the PGA Tour or Nationwide Tour, was atop the leaderboard for most of the back nine until he couldn't make the short putts required of champions. He missed from 6 feet for birdie on the 15th, and the same distance on the 16th.
Glover also missed a 5-foot birdie putt on the 15th that ultimately cost him.
O'Hair allowed for a few nervous moments with a three-putt bogey from 25 feet on the 18th, one of the fastest putts on the course. He was spared when Glover's shot was too strong.
"I thought it was good, I really did," Glover said of his pitching wedge. "It was either wind or adrenaline, probably a little of both."
O'Hair, who finished at 11-under 277, will move up to No. 12 in the world ranking, his highest position ever. He also earned $1.17 million, giving him just short of $3 million for the year, more than he has ever made in any one season.
Not bad for a guy who once traveled the mini-tours with his wife in a 40-foot bus, at times having to sit out tournaments because he couldn't afford the entry fees, playing others under pressure to make money to eat.
Now they have two children, with another one due next month.
"I think that's the stuff that makes this so sweet," O'Hair said. "It makes the hard work worth it, and it's just really nice to enjoy it with her, especially where we came from."
Zach Johnson, who had a two-shot lead to start the final round, imploded on the par-3 second hole with a triple bogey from the trees. He wound up with a 76.
O'Hair recalls running into Woods on Monday at the Masters, eight days after the Bay Hill fiasco, nodding to a friend but grumbling under his breath at the reminder of what went wrong.
On Sunday, Woods hung around long enough to congratulate O'Hair, who was holding 4-year-old daughter Molly. O'Hair said Woods sent him a text message after Bay Hill with "some nice words."
Woods had more for him on Sunday.
"He's got all the talent. We know that," Woods said. "We've seen how well he's played. He's been through a lot off the golf course, and it's just a matter of time before all that settles in."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. -- CBS Sports golf analyst David Feherty came under sharp criticism Saturday for a joke he wrote in a Dallas magazine article that suggested American soldiers would be just as likely to knock off House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Leader Harry Reid as they would Osama bin Laden.
Feherty was among five Dallas residents who wrote for "D Magazine" on former President George W. Bush moving to Dallas, where the former Ryder Cup player from Northern Ireland has been living the last dozen years.
"From my own experience visiting the troops in the Middle East, I can tell you this though," Feherty wrote toward the end of his column. "Despite how the conflict has been portrayed by our glorious media, if you gave any U.S. soldier a gun with two bullets in it, and he found himself in an elevator with Nancy Pelosi, Harry Reid and Osama bin Laden, there's a good chance that Nancy Pelosi would get shot twice, and Harry Reid and bin Laden would be strangled to death."
Feherty is among the most popular golf analysts on television for his glib humor. He writes a monthly column for Golf Magazine, and the last of the four books he has written was titled, "An Idiot for All Seasons."
CBS Sports quickly distanced itself from Feherty's writing.
"We want to be clear that this column for a Dallas magazine is an unacceptable attempt at humor and is not in any way condoned, endorsed or approved by CBS Sports," spokeswoman LeslieAnne Wade said.
CBS Sports is not televising the PGA Tour this week at The Players Championship, and Feherty did not immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.
"David Feherty is an insightful and sometimes humorous commentator for CBS Sports' golf coverage," the PGA Tour said in a statement. "However, his attempt at humor in this instance went over the line, and his comments were clearly inappropriate. We hope he will use better judgment in the future."
Media Matters for America demanded an apology.
"Mr. Feherty's violent comments about Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Reid are disgusting," said Eric Burns, president of the watchdog group. "Suggesting that our troops would attack the leaders of the very democracy they've sworn to sacrifice their lives for is an insult to their integrity, honor, and professionalism. CBS Sports should demand it's golf analyst apologize to our soldiers."
Feherty, a recovering alcoholic, has been part of the CBS golf team since 1997 and has been an endless stream of comedy on the air. Last week in North Carolina, he stumbled over a line of questioning until he wound up asking Tiger Woods how it felt to be the "loser" after he finished fourth at the Quail Hollow Championship. That brought laughter from the world's No. 1 player.
He has gone to Iraq the last two years over Thanksgiving to meet with the troops and deliver his irreverent humor, but the experience moved him to the point that he has applied for U.S. citizenship.
Feherty is involved with "Troops First Foundation," with hopes of raising $15 million for soldiers who return wounded, many of them without limbs. He created his own division -- "F Troop" -- and last year took eight soldiers to South Dakota for pheasant hunting.
"I think it was going to Iraq and being so proud of this country," he said in an interview in November. "The vast majority of Americans who haven't been outside of America don't really understand how wonderful this place is. ... And it just meant more to me, I think in the last year or so, having visited our troops abroad and spent so much time with them at home, that it will be a great honor for me to be an American."
He is supportive of the 43rd president and his relocation to Dallas.
"I think most of us here in Dallas would have understood if he and the former First Missus had moved someplace a little more secluded than Preston Hollow. Like Area 51, maybe, or some sandbar in the Galapagos Islands, just so they could catch their breath for a couple of years and take stock of their lives," Feherty wrote.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
After consulting with doctors regarding treatment for his wife's breast cancer, Phil Mickelson has decided to return to golf at the St. Jude Classic in Memphis on June 11, sources told Golf World.
He will use the tournament as a tune-up for the U.S. Open the following week at Bethpage in Farmingdale, N.Y. After that his schedule is up in the air.
Sources told Golf World that Amy Mickelson will undergo surgery in late June or early July. Last week, Phil Mickelson said on his Web site that he was encouraged that doctors had caught the cancer early. He had taken an indefinite leave from golf while his wife underwent testing.
"We heard there was a possibility he would play," said St. Jude Championship spokesman Phil Cannon. "That would be great."
Mickelson is a sentimental favorite at every U.S. Open, where at age 38 he already has tied the record for most runner-up finishes with four. He is especially popular in New York, and his presence at Bethpage Black figured to bring an emotional and raucous response.
He has never finished worse than fourth in his four U.S. Opens held in New York.
But his return might not last long.
Mickelson first thought surgery for his 37-year-old wife could happen as early as a few weeks after the announcement, but that has been pushed back for another month.
Her treatment and recovery will dictate whether he plays in the British Open, or how much he plays at all the rest of the summer. Mickelson already has won twice this year and is No. 5 in the FedEx Cup standings.
Amy Mickelson is among the most popular wives in golf, mingling with friends and fans with equal ease as she follows him around the course. The support has been overwhelming, with phone calls and messages from players, and visible support on tour.
Saturday at Colonial, the PGA Tour Wives Association worked with the tour and title sponsor Crowne Plaza to promote "Pink Out," in which players, wives, officials and fans were encouraged to wear pink.
Ian Poulter was dressed in pink from head-to-toe, and most players wore some form of pink. Vijay Singh, one of Mickelson's fierce rivals, wore a pink shirt. Even the CBS Sports crew wore the color in support.
"We have been home watching the golf at Colonial surrounded by loved ones," Amy wrote Saturday on her husband's Web site. "Every time we see a player, caddy, announcer or fan wearing pink, we are overwhelmed by the love and support we feel. ... The 11 days since we received the diagnosis have been very difficult, but this incredible gesture helps us feel so much stronger."
Mickelson typically plays the week before a major to work into a competitive mode, but he has not done that in the past two years when Memphis moved into that spot on the schedule.
The last time he has played the St. Jude Championship was in 2001, when he missed the cut.
Mickelson was treated like a rock star in his last appearance at Bethpage Black, a public golf course on Long Island. It was held nine months after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and Mickelson had yet to win a major.
Starting the final round five shots behind, Mickelson got to within two shots of Tiger Woods on the back nine before Woods pulled away for a three-shot victory. Mickelson won the first of his three majors at the 2004 Masters, and he finally delivered for the New York area in 2005 when he won the PGA Championship at Baltusrol in northern New Jersey.
A native of San Diego, Lefty has become so smitten with New York that he takes a trip there every year with his family, and recently joined Liberty National, across the Hudson River in New Jersey.
"I love all that's going on there," he said last month. "It's a very sports-minded city, a very cultural city, an energetic city."
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HAVRE DE GRACE, Md. -- Ahn Shi-hyun's drive on the ninth hole at the LPGA Championship on Friday hit a robin, killing the bird in a puff of feathers.
"It's a shame," marshal Nina Dawson told Reuters. "The bird was in the wrong place at the wrong time. It was instantaneous."
South Korea's Ahn made the turn at 2 under par for the second round and was 1 under for the tournament.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -- Carolyn Bivens resigned as LPGA Tour commissioner Monday, bowing to pressure from players who were upset about the organization's economic woes and her leadership.
Marsha Evans, a retired rear admiral in the Navy who has also led the American Red Cross and Girl Scouts of the USA, will take over as interim commissioner. She'll serve until the LPGA board finds a replacement, which it hopes to do by the end of the year.
Bivens' departure seemed increasingly likely after a group of players wrote a letter last week to the LPGA Tour's board of directors calling for her to quit. Her uncertain status created a distraction over the weekend during the U.S. Women's Open.
"We reached a point which made it difficult for Carolyn herself to see herself going forward and being able to lead in this environment," board chairwoman Dawn Hudson said. "We had to change something."
Hudson said Bivens' resignation was a mutual decision between the former commissioner and the LPGA's board of directors. She praised Bivens for helping the tour "think big" even as the economy worsened.
But Bivens' four-year tenure was also plagued with difficulties and controversies.
The tour has lost seven tournaments since 2007, and last year Bivens was widely criticized when she proposed an English-only policy for tour players. It was never instituted. The LPGA includes 121 international players from 26 countries, including 45 from South Korea.
In October 2006, she was accused by officials of the now-defunct tour event near Atlantic City, N.J., of backing out on a promise to maintain a longtime event.
"I love the LPGA and have been proud to serve as its commissioner for the last four years. I am also proud of what the LPGA has accomplished during my tenure," Bivens said in a statement Monday. "It is time to turn this organization over to someone who can build on the solid foundation we've established."
Bivens' supporters credited her with integrating another tour into the LPGA, securing ownership of the LPGA's own major tournament, upgrading the quality of courses, increasing coverage of child care, implementing the first drug-testing program in professional golf and signing new television partnerships.
"Carolyn did a lot of great things. She tried to stand up for the LPGA, which no one has done in a long time," said Juli Inkster, a tour veteran and member of the board. "I just think her delivery on the whole thing was not the best."
Evans has limited experience in professional golf; she only began serving on the LPGA board this year and her only prior work was on an LPGA commissioner's advisory council in 2007 and 2008.
She intends to stay in the job only while the search for a permanent replacement continues. Her top priorities are reaching out to the players and signing up tournaments that are currently being negotiated despite an economic climate in which corporate sponsors are cutting costs.
"What I would hope during this period when I have the privilege of serving is that we can move beyond the controversies and really focus on the players," Evans said.
LPGA player and board member Christina Kim said it has been a "very interesting last 10 days" juggling the U.S. Open with numerous conference calls about the LPGA leadership. But she was thrilled with Evans' interim appointment.
"I haven't met anybody more compassionate, more compelling and with more passion for the future of the organization," Kim said.
The LPGA Tour has also appointed former star Annika Sorenstam as an adviser to the board of directors.
"She has relationships and a point of view about the golf world that I think will be helpful in some of our tournament negotiations," Hudson said. "She is able to understand things from a player's eyes but also understand from a business standpoint what some of the opportunities and obstacles are. She will be a sage voice in sometimes reconciling those two."
Inkster said some tournaments that are in danger of being canceled can be salvaged.
"Sometimes when you send a different team, a different delivery, things can work out," Inkster said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NORTH PLAINS, Ore. -- Long after she earned her first trophy on the LPGA Tour, shook hands with countless tournament organizers and fielded questions from the media, rookie M.J. Hur returned to the 18th green at Pumpkin Ridge Golf Club.
There, the winner of the Safeway Classic signed autographs for about 50 fans.
The South Korean made a 6-foot birdie putt on the second playoff hole to beat Suzann Pettersen for her first tour victory.
Hur pumped her fist and broke into giggles after sinking the putt on the par-4 No. 17 hole. Then fellow tour player and best friend Haeji Kang chased the South Korean around the green, trying to douse her with champagne.
Hur's laughter continued unabated when she was finally caught. The tears of joy didn't come until she hugged her mother.
Hur shot a final-round 65, while Pettersen and veteran Michele Redman each shot a 67 to finish at 13-under 203 and set up the playoff.
Redman, whose last tour victory came in 2000, was knocked out when she missed a short putt for par on the first playoff hole, the par-4 No. 18.
Hur, who competed on the Futures Tour last season, had played in 13 previous tournaments this season, making the cut six times.
After a foot-long putt for par to finish her round, she quickly exited the course. But rather than retreat somewhere to watch Pettersen and Redman finish their rounds, she hung out in the clubhouse before heading for the putting green.
Pettersen and Redman each birdied No. 17 to help set up the playoff.
Just 19, Hur wasn't nervous. When asked why not, she shrugged and said, "I don't know."
Pettersen's putt for birdie on the second playoff hole missed to the left, opening the door for Hur to clinch it.
"It was a good putt but it just didn't break, so it's disappointing," she said. "But this is what we work for, and I guess there's next week."
Pettersen had four straight birdies to surge atop the leaderboard and at one point take a three-stroke lead, but a double bogey on the par-5 No. 15 hurt her.
The native of Norway had not won since 2007, when she had five victories. She was a runner-up at the Corona Championship earlier this year and had eight top-10 finishes before Sunday.
"I've hoisted a lot of trophies in my head," she said. "All I can do is just keep plugging along."
While ominous clouds and scattered downpours marked the first two rounds, brilliant sunshine and temperatures in the 80s welcomed the last day. Michelle Wie, Ai Miyazato and Seon Hwa Lee all finished two shots back at 11-under 205.
Wie finished the final round with a 66. Playing her first full season on tour, Wie was runner-up in the season-opening tournament in her home state of Hawaii.
She said she's been gaining confidence, boosted by her performance in the Solheim Cup. The United States defeated the European team in the competition last weekend in Sugar Grove, Ill.
"It's not really pressure," she said about getting her first victory. "I just want it to happen already."
While Wie and several others were playing in the Solheim Cup, Hur was practicing. Her performance on the tour is important, she said, because her father sold his sporting goods business in South Korea to accompany her.
"I practiced a lot," she said. "That's why I had a good score this tournament."
Rookie Anna Nordqvist, who won the LPGA Championship earlier this year, was a one-stroke leader going into Sunday's final round. She shot a 72 to finish at 10 under.
Defending champion Cristie Kerr finished well back at 5 under with a 72.
The tournament was moved this year to the Ghost Creek course at Pumpkin Ridge, about a 20-minute drive west of Portland. It had been played the past 19 years at Columbia Edgewater Country Club, near the Portland International Airport.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
FAR HILLS, N.J. -- U.S. Amateur quarterfinalist Peter Uihlein and Cameron Tringale are the final two amateur players selected to the U.S. Walker Cup team.
Uihlein is the third Oklahoma State player chosen for this year's team. The sophomore from Orlando, Fla., joins teammates Rickie Fowler and Morgan Hoffmann.
Tringale, of Laguna Niguel, Calif., reached the third round of match play at the Amateur at Southern Hills in Tulsa, Okla.
Fifty-year-old Tim Jackson, the medalist at the Amateur, and Ben Martin, of Greenwood, S.C., are the alternates.
The biennial Walker Cup matches, pitting an American team against a team representing Great Britain and Ireland, will take place Sept. 12-13 at Merion Golf Club in Ardmore, Pa.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LEON, Mexico -- Former Boise State player Troy Merritt won the Mexico Open on Sunday for his first Nationwide Tour victory, beating Australia's Adam Bland with a 20-foot birdie putt on the first hole of a playoff.
The 23-year-old Merritt won when Bland missed his 8-foot birdie try.
"I looked at it from every angle but I was just trying not to over-read it," Merritt said. "That's when you get into trouble. It was a double-breaker that just caught the low side and went in. It's unfortunate Adam missed that one."
Merritt and Bland finished regulation at 15-under 273 in the soggy, weather-plagued tournament at El Bosque Country Club. Merritt closed with a 3-under 69, while Bland broke the course record with a career-best 8-under 64.
England's Matthew Richardson (67) was third, two shots back.
"I won a lot in college," said Merritt, who had 21 wins at Division II Winona State and Division I Boise State. "The difference between college and here is the level of play. Out here it's unbelievable. Anybody out here can win any week of the year."
Getting there wasn't easy for Merritt, who looked like he was headed for a quick week when he started the tournament with four consecutive bogeys on Thursday morning. He finished that round with a 69 and shot 69-68 for a share of the third-round lead.
"I would always get off to slow starts and be 2 over after four or five holes and my college coach would just say that I was spotting them a few strokes," he said. "You just have to battle back one shot a time and one birdie at a time."
Merritt earned $117,000 to jump from 146th to 27th on the money list with $134,617. The top 25 at the end of the season will earn 2010 PGA Tour cards.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LEMONT, Ill. -- Tiger Woods started with a bogey. His best shot led to a par.
It turned out to be his best round of the year.
Getting better with every shot, Woods broke the course record at Cog Hill and blew away the field Saturday in the BMW Championship with a 9-under 62 that gave him a seven-shot lead.
"After I got past the first hole I was doing all right," Woods said. "It was one of those days that kind of built upon itself."
Brandt Snedeker finished with four straight birdies for a 66 and will play with Woods for the first time Sunday. He could probably think of better circumstances.
"I've got to do something spectacular," Snedeker said, "and he's got to maybe have a heart attack out there for me to have a chance."
Marc Leishman had a two-shot lead when he made the turn. Could he have imagined shooting 1 over on the back nine and finding himself seven shots behind?
"You wouldn't think so," he said. "But like I say, it's Tiger."
The 62 tied the tournament record -- an event that dates to 1899 -- set last year by Jim Furyk at Bellerive outside St. Louis.
A course renovated by Rees Jones with hopes of landing a U.S. Open was no match for Woods, who was nearly nine shots better than the field, which averaged 70.71.
Woods was at 16-under 197 and had his largest lead on the PGA Tour since he was eight shots in front in the Buick Invitational at Torrey Pines early last year. He wound up winning by eight shots.
This was Woods at his finest, even though he wasn't flawless.
He dropped his 3-wood in disgust after his opening tee shot sailed to the left into a bunker, leading to a sloppy bogey. He followed that by missing a 10-foot birdie putt on the next hole. Woods started the third round tied for the lead, and already was three shots behind when he stood on the tee at the par-3 sixth and faced a dangerous pin -- all the way to the left, protected by deep bunkers front and back.
"Even if you bail out to the right, it's a tough putt," Woods said. "The only thing you can't do there is go in the back bunker. That's one of the reasons why I didn't hit a 6-iron and try to hold it in there. But I had to hit the 7-iron really good to get it there, and I pulled it off."
From there, he never missed another green.
He considers his best shot a 6-iron out of the rough on the left side of the seventh fairway, which he needed to start left of the green to avoid a tree in front of him and yet keep it out of the bunker. It came out perfectly, and Woods gave a light fist pump, rare for an iron shot that stopped 15 feet away on the fringe.
The signature shot was a 3-wood from just over 300 yards to 10 feet at the par-5 ninth for an eagle, so pure that the gallery crammed into the bleacher rose to its feet when the ball finally stopped rolling.
Woods knocked it to take the outright lead, and it only got bigger.
It will be his first time with the 54-hole lead since the PGA Championship last month at Hazeltine, where Y.E. Yang made up a two-shot deficit and became the first player to beat Woods from behind in a major.
Yang is 25 shots behind at Cog Hill.
Snedeker was worried about keeping his card this summer until his health improved and his game turned around. Now he has a chance to move into the top 30 in the FedEx Cup standings, which would qualify him for all the majors next year.
Winning this week? That's a taller task.
"Looks like Tiger is making it difficult on us," Snedeker said after closing with four straight birdies. "I'm playing fantastic. And the best thing is I fought extremely well out there."
Matt Kuchar improved his Tour Championship hopes with a 66 and was tied for fourth at 205 with Padraig Harrington (69).
It was Harrington who got Woods' attention early in the third round. The Irishman birdied three straight holes, chipping in on the fourth hole from deep rough, while Leishman birdied four straight in the middle of the front nine to reach 10 under.
Woods stood on the sixth tee three shots behind. Four holes later, he had the lead to himself. And midway through the back nine, when he was firing at flags and holing putts, the tournament seemed to be over.
"It was just a round that, as I said, kind of built upon itself, and I just kind of gradually kept hitting good shots, then making a couple of putts here and there," he said. "And lo and behold, I end up at 9-under par."
Woods will be going for his sixth victory of the year and his fifth at Cog Hill on Sunday, which would put him atop the FedEx Cup standings going to the Tour Championship in two weeks.
For everyone else, it's a matter of getting there.
Seven players among the top 10 are currently outside the top 30 required to get into East Lake. Snedeker would not have figured to be one of those players three months ago, when he was returning from a rib injury.
"I didn't think I was going to have a job in July," Snedeker said. "My whole goal was to secure my card. Now I'm back to my original goal of trying to make the Tour Championship. Any time you get to the Tour Championship, it's been a good year."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Utah's newest millionaire got rich with his brother's 9-iron and a little luck.
Jason Hargett, a 35-year-old restaurant manager and father of four, sank a hole-in-one for $1 million on Tuesday at a benefit tournament hosted by former Utah Jazz center Mark Eaton.
What's more, Hargett was a last-minute replacement in the tournament and nearly opted not to play because of a wrist injury.
"Honestly, I played the day before and couldn't even finish the round with my wrist," he said during a phone interview on ESPN's morning "SportsCenter."
But during the tournament, in which he played with his brother's clubs, Hargett qualified to be one of six players taking a $1 million hole-in-one swing attempt after the round was over. The 150-yard hole was carved into the driving range at the Red Ledges golf resort in Heber City.
With $1 million on the line, he hit a 9-iron about 10 feet behind the hole.
Then the ball slowly rolled back, diagonally, and fell in, making him a millionaire.
"After I hit it, I'm like, 'Gosh, you know, that could have a chance,' " Hargett told ESPN. "When it started spinning diagonal, I was like. 'Holy crap, this is not happening' ... I just couldn't believe it."
That touched off a wild celebration, during which Hargett sprinted toward the hole and, according to The Deseret News of Salt Lake City, was tackled by former BYU quarterback Robbie Bosco, his tournament teammate.
"I'm still in disbelief. I can't really comprehend what it means," Hargett said, according to The Deseret News. "I just keep seeing that shot over and over in my head and keep saying to myself, 'There's no way that it really went in.' "
Asked about his plans for the money, Hargett told ESPN he and his brother, Brandon, plan to go to Europe next summer, possibly to take in the British Open or run with the bulls in Pamplona, Spain.
But he said he hasn't thought much about what to do with the rest of his winnings, "other than we've got the kids' college wrapped up and a few things like that."
The tournament benefited a fund at the University of Utah's Diabetes Center.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ORLANDO, Fla. -- Professional golfer Jim Thorpe has pleaded guilty to failing to pay more than $2 million in income taxes.
The 60-year-old central Florida resident pleaded guilty to two counts on Tuesday. He faces a maximum of two years in prison and a $4.1 million fine when he is sentenced.
He was charged in February with seven counts of failing to pay federal taxes on income he earned in 2002, 2003 and 2004.
His attorney, Mark Horwitz, says Thorpe wants to move on with his life. The attorney had argued previously that Thorpe did not willfully try to break the law.
Thorpe has won 13 times on the Champions Tour and three times on the PGA Tour.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tiger Woods was injured early Friday when he lost control of his SUV outside his Florida mansion, and a local police chief said Woods' wife used a golf club to smash out the back window to help get him out.
The world's No. 1 golfer was treated and released from a hospital in good condition, his spokesman said. The Florida Highway Patrol said Woods' vehicle hit a fire hydrant and a tree in his neighbor's yard after he pulled out of his driveway at 2:25 a.m.
Windermere police chief Daniel Saylor told The Associated Press that officers found the 33-year-old PGA star lying in the street with his wife, Elin, hovering over him.
"She was frantic, upset," Saylor said in a briefing Friday night. "It was her husband laying on the ground."
She told officers she was in the house when she heard the accident and "came out and broke the back window with a golf club," he said, adding that the front-door windows were not broken and that "the door was probably locked."
"She supposedly got him out and laid him on the ground," he said. "He was in and out of consciousness when my guys got there."
Saylor said Woods had lacerations to his upper and lower lips, and blood in his mouth; officers treated Woods for about 10 minutes until an ambulance arrived. Woods was conscious enough to speak, he said.
"He was mumbling, but didn't say anything coherent," Saylor said.
The crash knocked Woods unconscious for about six minutes, according to a call report compiled by the Orange County Sheriff's Office, the Orlando Sentinel reported.
In a telephone interview, Woods' father-in-law, radio journalist Thomas Nordegren, told The Associated Press in Stockholm that he would not discuss the accident.
"I haven't spoken to her in the last few ... " Nordegren said about his daughter, Elin, before cutting himself off. "I don't want to go into that."
Woods' mother-in-law Barbro Holmberg also refused to address the matter.
"She doesn't want to comment on private issues like these," Holmberg's spokeswoman Eva Malmborg said.
The Florida Highway Patrol said alcohol was not involved, although the accident remains under investigation and charges could be filed.
Woods was alone in his 2009 Cadillac when he pulled out of his driveway from his mansion at Isleworth, a gated waterfront community just outside Orlando, the patrol said.
Woods' injuries were described as serious in the patrol's report, though his spokesman, Glenn Greenspan, issued a statement that Woods was treated and released.
Left unanswered was where Woods was going at that hour. Greenspan and agent Mark Steinberg said there would be no comment beyond the short statement of the accident posted on Woods' Web site.
Asked at an evening news conference if the couple could have been arguing, Saylor said he had no knowledge of that. The couple, married five years, have two children.
The accident came two days after the National Enquirer published a story alleging that Woods had been seeing a New York night club hostess, and that they recently were together in Melbourne, where Woods competed in the Australian Masters.
The woman denied having an affair with Woods when contacted by the AP.
"I resent my reputation is getting completely blasted in the media," she said during a telephone interview late Friday. "Everyone is assuming I came out and said this. This is not a story I have anything to do with."
The woman said she was in Melbourne two weeks ago with clients and never saw Woods the entire time she was there.
"The story stands for itself," National Enquirer executive editor Barry Levine told the AP on Saturday.
Patrol spokeswoman Sgt. Kim Montes said the accident was being investigated as a "traffic crash."
"We don't believe it is a domestic issue," she said.
Woods, coming off a two-week trip to China and Australia earlier this month, is host of the Chevron World Challenge in Thousand Oaks, Calif., which starts Thursday. He is scheduled to have his news conference Tuesday afternoon at Sherwood Country Club. Steinberg said he did not know if Woods planned to play next week.
The Florida Highway Patrol said tapes of the 911 call won't be released until they can be reviewed, probably Monday at the earliest.
The accident report was not released until nearly 12 hours after Woods was injured. Montes said the accident did not meet the criteria of a serious crash, and the FHP only put out a press release because of inquiries from local media.
Montes said the patrol reports injuries as serious if they require more than minor medical attention. Air bags in the SUV did not deploy.
Two troopers tried to talk to Woods on Friday evening, but his wife said he was sleeping and they agreed to come back Saturday, Montes said.
She said charges could be filed if there was a clear traffic violation, although troopers still do not know what caused Woods' SUV to hit the hydrant and the tree.
Damage to the front of Woods' SUV was described as "medium" by Saylor.
"Not real extensive, but not real light," he said.
Woods rarely faces such private scrutiny, even as perhaps the most famous active athlete in the world.
He usually makes news only because of what he can do with a golf club. Few other athletes have managed to keep their private lives so guarded, or have a circle of friends so airtight when it comes to life off the course.
His wife was awarded a $183,250 settlement and an apology from an Irish magazine that published a fake nude photo of her, and Woods received a $1.6 million settlement in a lawsuit against the builder of his yacht -- named Privacy -- for using his name and photos of the boat as promotional material.
Woods is approaching $100 million in career earnings on the PGA Tour, and Forbes magazine reported that combined with endorsements, appearance fees and golf course design, he has become the first athlete to top $1 billion.
Woods' $2.4 million home is part of an exclusive subdivision near Orlando, a community set on an Arnold Palmer-designed golf course and a chain of small lakes. The neighborhood, which is fortified with high brick walls and has its own security force, is home to CEOs and other sports stars such as the NBA's Shaquille O'Neal.
Woods has won 82 times around the world and 14 majors, becoming the first player of black heritage to win a major at the 1997 Masters when he was 21. He attended the Stanford-Cal football game last Saturday, where he tossed the coin at the start of the game and was inducted into Stanford's sports Hall of Fame at halftime.
He won six times this year after missing eight months recovering from reconstructive surgery on his left knee. Even though he failed to win a major, Woods said he considered this a successful year because he did not know how his knee would respond.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
OCOEE, Fla. -- Tiger Woods' mother-in-law collapsed at his home and was rushed to a hospital early Tuesday, touching off the second media frenzy in two weeks surrounding the pro golfer's carefully guarded private life.
Barbro Holmberg was taken by ambulance to Health Central Hospital with stomach pains after a 911 call from Woods' house. Holmberg, a Swedish politician, was released about 11 hours later and returned to Woods' mansion, hospital spokesman Dan Yates said.
"She was wheeled out in a wheelchair just like everyone else," Yates said.
In a recording of the 911 call obtained Tuesday by The Associated Press, a panicking woman tells the dispatcher that her mother has collapsed.
"Hurry up," the woman says as a child can be heard crying in the background. "She collapsed in the bathroom. What do I do?"
A few seconds later the woman said her mother was breathing normally, talking and didn't appear to be hurt from her fall.
The caller wasn't identified. Woods' wife, Elin Nordegren, has a twin sister, but it wasn't clear whether she was at the house.
Health Central is the same hospital where Woods was treated after he crashed his sport utility vehicle outside his home in a gated community in nearby Windermere last month.
Holmberg, 57, arrived in the U.S. a few days ago, Yates said, just as her daughter grappled with fallout from the crash and the ensuing statement from Woods that he had extramarital "transgressions."
Woods and his wife have a 2-year-old daughter and an infant son.
Family members visited Holmberg in the hospital, Yates said, but he did not specify whether Woods or his wife came. The family hired additional security to keep the media away.
Yates would not speculate on what caused Holmberg's stomach problems or whether she had suffered previously with that type of distress. Holmberg's spokeswoman, Eva Malmborg, said she wasn't aware that Holmberg suffered from any disease.
Holmberg was expected back at her job as Gavleborg county governor in central-east Sweden next week, said her deputy, Olov Rydberg.
Intense media scrutiny has followed the world's No. 1 golfer since he hit a hydrant and a tree Nov. 27 about 2:25 a.m. Woods was cited for careless driving and fined $164.
The attention didn't let up Tuesday, when dozens of live trucks, camera crews and reporters camped out on the hospital's lawn, awaiting word of Holmberg's condition.
"I think she understands," Yates said of Holmberg.
The accident -- and Woods' refusal to answer questions about it -- fueled speculation about a possible dispute between him and Nordegren.
Just days before the crash, a National Enquirer story alleged Woods had been seeing a New York nightclub hostess, Rachel Uchitel, who has denied it. After the crash, Us Weekly reported that a Los Angeles cocktail waitress named Jaimee Grubbs claims she had a 31-month affair with Woods.
Last week, Woods issued a statement saying he had let his family down with unspecified "transgressions" that he regrets with "all of my heart." He did not elaborate.
A police report released Monday showed that a Florida trooper who suspected Woods was driving under the influence sought a subpoena for the golfer's blood test results from the hospital, but prosecutors rejected the petition for insufficient information.
A witness, who wasn't identified in the report, told trooper Joshua Evans that Woods had been drinking alcohol earlier. The same witness also said Woods had been prescribed two drugs, the sleep aid Ambien and the painkiller Vicodin.
The report did not say who the witness was but added it was the same person who pulled Woods from the vehicle after the accident. Nordegren told police that she used a golf club to smash the back windows of the Cadillac Escalade to help Woods out.
Although Woods' injuries were minor, his agent, Mark Steinberg, used them as an excuse to cancel an interview with investigators the day after the accident, according to a call log released Tuesday by the Florida Highway Patrol.
"Tiger wants to reschedule meeting set for 3 p.m.," the log entry said. "He's still too sore from the accident."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Yogi Berra will take on a new role at the Bob Hope Classic as the first "Classic Ambassador," in which he will perform a variety of duties during the 51st edition of the tournament in the California desert.
The Hall of Fame catcher played 15 times in the Bob Hope, during which he brought his brand of wisdom to the game.
"Ninety percent of all putts which finish short of the hole don't go in," Berra once said.
Among other things, Berra will hit the ceremonial first tee shot on Jan. 20 and present the trophy after the 90-hole tournament.
"It's a privilege for me to be honored by the Bob Hope Classic, which has always been a wonderful tournament," Berra said. "I thought the world of Bob, for all he's done for golf and everything and everybody, and I cherish the times we spent. Playing this tournament every year over the last 15 years, I can honestly say has been a great experience.
"I can also say, being 84, not many can beat me in experience."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEW YORK --  AT&T Inc. said Thursday it would no longer sponsor Tiger Woods, joining Accenture in dropping support for the world's top golfer, who's taking a break from the sport to focus on his marriage after his admitted infidelity.
The phone company hasn't used Woods' image extensively in advertising, but its logo appeared on his golf bag. That deal had been billed as a "multiyear" agreement when it was signed early in 2009, after Buick ended its endorsement one year early because of its financial woes.
Woods has also been the host of the AT&T National PGA Tour event since it started in 2007. Tour spokesman Ty Votaw said that since Woods is on indefinite leave from professional golf, he will not serve as host for the 2010 event. However, his Tiger Woods Foundation will continue to be the beneficiary of the AT&T National, under a contract that runs through 2014, Votaw said.
AT&T said it would continue to sponsor the event.
Woods won the 2009 AT&T National in July at the Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Md. The AT&T National is moving to Aronimink Country Club outside Philadelphia the next two years as Congressional prepares to host the 2011 U.S. Open.
AT&T has also been the presenting sponsor of the annual Tiger Jam concert event in Las Vegas, but that contract has expired, according to AT&T spokesman Michael Coe.
AT&T, which is based in Dallas, did not comment on its reasons for dropping Woods, or how much the relationship was worth.
Woods' agent, Mark Steinberg, had no comment on AT&T's decision.
Woods' image has taken a beating since a Thanksgiving holiday car accident at the golfer's Florida home was followed by an admission of extramarital "transgressions." Most of Woods' $100 million in annual earnings has come not from tournament winnings but from companies that wanted to be associated with his persona.
Consulting firm Accenture dropped the athlete two weeks ago, saying he was "no longer the right representative" of the company's values.
Gillette, a unit of the Procter & Gamble Co., also has said it won't air ads for its razors that include Woods or include him in public appearances.
Swiss watch maker Tag Heuer, a unit of luxury goods empire LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, also said that it would "downscale" its use of golfer Tiger Woods' image in its advertising campaigns for the foreseeable future.
Electronic Arts Inc., which puts out the "Tiger Woods PGA Tour" series of golf video games, has not said what its plans are for the franchise. The company did not immediately return requests for comment Thursday. Nike Inc. and PepsiCo Inc.'s Gatorade are other big sponsors that haven't severed their ties.
Meanwhile, the Florida Highway Patrol confirmed on Thursday that troopers met with Woods on Dec. 1, four days after the accident outside his home, to deliver a $164 citation for careless driving. The meeting was earlier reported by WESH-TV in Orlando, Fla.
In an e-mail to The Associated Press, FHP captain Mark Welch said Woods was "polite" and "only said, 'Yes Sir."
"The only injury that troopers observed was a bump and cut on his lip, which was consistent with the crash investigation," Welch said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii -- U.S. Open champion Lucas Glover returned to Kapalua and had another miserable start to the first round of a new PGA Tour season. The difference Thursday was how he finished.
Glover recovered from a double bogey on his opening hole by going 9-under par over a nine-hole stretch in the middle of his round. He finished it off with a tap-in birdie for a 7-under 66 on Thursday and a one-shot lead in the season-opening SBS Championship.
The last time he qualified for this winners-only tournament, Glover began his season with four straight bogeys. This time, he hit a weak 4-iron that disappeared into the native shrubs and led to a double bogey.
"I was aiming 25 feet left of the hole and hit it 25 feet to the right," he said. "I got what I deserved."
He made up for it in a big way.
Glover, who made only two eagles in 26 tournaments last year, made two in a five-hole stretch on the Plantation Course at Kapalua that turned his fortunes quickly. He then made four straight birdies to open the back nine, and took the outright lead with a pitch from just short of the 18th green that trickled to inside a foot from the cup.
Nathan Green of Australia and Martin Laird of Scotland, among seven players making their debuts at Kapalua, joined Dustin Johnson and Nick Watson at 67. British Open champion Stewart Cink and Masters champion Angel Cabrera were among those at 68.
Defending champion Geoff Ogilvy had a 69.
The wind finally switched to its normal direction -- the trades -- and it was mild enough to make scoring relatively easy. Heath Slocum (75) and Mark Wilson (74) were the only players over par in the 28-man field.
The key to Glover's success last year, when he won the U.S. Open at Bethpage Black, was to not be so hard on himself. He was tested immediately with his double bogey, and it didn't bother him in the least.
"I knew there were a lot of birdies," he said. "I saw some scores early and I knew guys were making birdies, and if I played well, I could get something going. So just don't rush anything. Be patient."
The birdies and eagles came quickly.
It started with a 6-iron to the par-5 fifth to 18 feet for eagle, followed by a drive down the hill to the front of the sixth green for a simple up-and-down for birdie. Then came a 3-wood into 30 feet on the par-5 ninth, and the longest putt of his round, a 35-footer across the 11th green for a birdie.
And it could have been even better.
His birdie streak on the back nine ended at the 14th, where he drove to the front of the green. He chipped weakly to 8 feet and missed the putt. On the next hole, Glover missed a 3-foot birdie putt, and he three-putted from about 15 feet above the hole on the 16th.
It still added to a 66, and Glover felt as though he played that well.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii -- The flags were surprisingly still, the Pacific Ocean missing the raging white caps so typical this time of the year with the trade wind. That was all the evidence U.S. Open champion Lucas Glover needed to realize he'd better keep making birdies.
Glover had another good stretch in the middle of his round Friday that sent him to an 8-under 65 in the SBS Championship, giving him the lowest 36-hole score at Kapalua in five years and a three-shot lead going into the weekend.
Even at 15-under 131, and in a tropical paradise, this is no time for Glover to relax.
John Rollins had a 66 and was three shots behind, followed by defending champion Geoff Ogilvy (66), Sean O'Hair (67), Matt Kuchar (68) and Martin Laird (68) at 11-under 135.
"I'm pretty aggressive, anyway, so I'm going to have to pick my spots," Glover said. "I'm going to have to make some birdies. These guys are the best players in the world, and they're going to be coming after me."
The conditions have been so pristine over two days along the Maui coastline that everyone in the 28-man field was at par or better. And with the Plantation Course at Kapalua as defenseless as ever, 11 players were tied for the lead at one point early in the second round.
Glover changed that quickly.
He ran off three straight birdies, all of them inside 8 feet, then made a par that felt like a birdie. His tee shot found the bunker at No. 8 and rolled so far back that it was close to the front lip, forcing Glover to stand outside the sand. He blasted out to 12 feet and holed the putt, putting him in a good frame of mind heading to the ninth tee.
Glover hit 3-wood to 12 feet for eagle, then hit a wedge to 4 feet on the 10th for an easy birdie.
Just like that, he was back in control, and Glover made sure he stayed there with a few more birdies late in his round, including a wedge that bounced off the flag at the 16th and settled next to the cup.
O'Hair noticed Glover at 11 under when he walked off the 13th green. The next time he saw a leaderboard along the 17th fairway, he saw Glover at 14 under, and everyone else moving up a couple of notches, too.
"There's quite a few players out there that can win this thing and are playing some nice golf," O'Hair said.
Most of them are being pampered beyond a free room at the Ritz-Carlton, where the butler-drawn baths are among the amenities. Glover was driving along the roads framed by cook pines, gazing at the still Pacific, and knew this week would be a treat for golfers.
"We were talking about this at breakfast," he said. "Nobody who's been to Hawaii has seen it this calm. This is nice for us. We get to be a little more aggressive. Club selection is a lot easier. I wouldn't mind seeing it come up and having some goofy stuff go on, just for fun."
Glover had the lowest 36-hole score at Kapalua since Vijay Singh also was at 131 in 2005. The record was a 17-under 129 by Ernie Els in 2003, when he set a PGA Tour record at 31 under for a 72-hole event.
More wind might make a three-shot lead feel like nothing. Even in peaceful conditions, Glover realizes he has a long way to go.
"It'll be hard to catch him if he's playing as well as he is," Ogilvy said. "But he's going to have to keep playing well. In the wind, four or five shots can disappear. But if he's even par on the front nine, three-fourths of that lead could be gone. We all know that if the weather is benign, we have to go low."
Ogilvy played bogey-free and continues to pitch the ball cleanly, which he did last year in winning by six shots. O'Hair made a late push when he saw Glover's score, pounding a 3-wood on the final hole that set up an eagle.
Masters champion Angel Cabrera had another 68 and was five shots behind at 10-under 136, while British Open champion Stewart Cink and Kenny Perry were in the group another shot behind.
The other major winner is PGA champion Y.E. Yang, who was trying to stay in the mix until hitting into the native grass left of the 18th and eventually three-putting from 12 feet for a triple bogey and a 74, leaving him 13 shots behind.
The forecast is for moderate wind the rest of the week, and while a mere breeze if a refreshing change, it's still odd.
"You come over with the mindset the wind is going to howl," Rollins said. "If I'm home watching in on TV, guys pants are whipping in the wind, they're hitting short clubs from crazy yardages, they're defensive on every shot. To get rounds like this is fantastic."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii -- Even with a three-shot lead at Kapalua going into the weekend, U.S. Open champion Lucas Glover figured it would be tight. Surely, a few players in this winners-only field would post a low score, and a few guys wouldn't.
He just didn't think he would be the one struggling to get by Saturday.
Or that so many others would get into the hunt.
Glover went from a three-shot lead to a two-shot deficit in the SBS Championship, only to have his fortunes change as quickly as the direction of the wind. Three birdies over his last five holes allowed him to salvage a 2-under 71 and a one-shot lead over defending champion Geoff Ogilvy going into a final round with endless possibilities.
"Everybody wants an opportunity on Sunday, and I have that," Glover said.
Glover can attribute that to his finish, when the Kona wind shifted to the prevailing trade wind. That made the par-5 18th hole play shorter than its 663 yards, and it helped that Glover pounded a drive that rolled out 406 yards. He reached the green easily and two-putted from 60 feet to walk off the Plantation Course at Kapalua with the lead.
"I knew it was going to tighten up," Glover said. "Some guys were going to play well, and some guys weren't. That happened to be me."
He was at 17-under 202 and will play in the final group with the defending champion.
Ogilvy had a 5-under 68, his seventh consecutive round in the 60s at Kapalua, with his only blemish coming on the 16th. That's about when Ogilvy noticed the switch in the wind, found the worst spot -- a bunker -- and advanced the ball only about 80 yards in making bogey.
He also birdied the final hole to give himself a chance at starting another year with a win.
The final round figures to be anything but at two-man race.
Martin Laird of Scotland had a 4-under 69 and was at 204, while Ryan Moore shot 68 and was another shot back. The group at 206 included three major champions -- Retief Goosen, Stewart Cink and Angel Cabrera.
Glover showed that a three-shot lead isn't safe. Eleven players were separated by five shots going into the last day, with five of them major champions.
"It's that sort of week," Ogilvy said. "There are cases when guys go crazy and win by a lot. It can bunch up guys as well. It doesn't matter what you're shooting."
It was one of the most unusual days at Kapalua, and players with deep local knowledge could have known what to expect when neighboring Molokai was shrouded with "vog," which is produced by volcanic ashes that drift from 100 miles away on the Big Island without the prevailing trade wind to disperse it.
Glover is making only his second trip to Kapalua and most likely is not aware of vog. What he did notice walking down the first fairway was Troy Matteson playing from a 40-foot valley of light rough beyond the ninth fairway.
The typical play in this wind is to hit iron off the 521-yard ninth hole to keep from running through the fairway. Matteson and Bo Van Pelt opted for driver down the valley, leaving a blind shot to the green -- but also a short iron instead of another long iron.
They were among seven players who took that route, and Glover joined them.
"Walking down No. 1, I saw Troy and Bo, and it didn't look like they had a bad lie," Glover said. "I didn't know if I could hold a fairway metal downwind. That was the thinking there. I never even thought about it before. Even on Tuesday and Wednesday, the wind wasn't blowing that hard."
Six of those seven players made birdie, and it came at the right time for Glover.
Having missed birdie chances on three straight holes early in the round, he lost his feel for the speed on the Bermuda greens had consecutive three-putts, one that went 8 feet by the hole, another that came up 8 feet short.
Suddenly, he was no longer in the lead.
The birdie on nine settled him, and he found his speed on the back nine with short but tricky birdie putts on the 14th and 16th holes that enabled him to regain the lead as he tries to give Kapalua a wire-to-wire winner for the second straight year.
Glover would have preferred a big lead, the way Ogilvy built a six-shot lead, although being in the hunt at the start of a new year was all he had in mind at the start of the week.
Having this much company?
Ogilvy walked off the 17th green and stared at a leaderboard for the longest time. Each page that turned continued to have player after player easily within range of the lead.
"This is a course where there's still 10 guys who can win," Ogilvy said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SAN DIEGO -- Ben Crane is back in the news for all the right reasons.
Crane's quiet offseason took a strange turn in December when a gossip magazine quoted him as saying that Tiger Woods was a "phony and fake," even though Crane had never spoken to Life & Style and had not given any interviews in months.
He handled that situation with the same even hand he displayed Sunday at Torrey Pines, where Crane overcame a two-shot deficit and hung on for a 2-under 70 and a one-shot victory in the Farmers Insurance Open.
"Obviously, being in the news a month ago was bizarre," Crane said. "Someone made some stuff up that I said something about Tiger, which I didn't. To be in the news again? Yeah, my name keeps popping up. It's good to be [in the news] on a good note."
Then he smiled.
"And you can quote me on that."
Even more bizarre was the way Crane made his way around the tough South Course. He made two birdie putts longer than 45 feet to seize control, then missed two short par putts to keep alive the hopes of Michael Sim, Brandt Snedeker and Marc Leishman.
And the whole time, Crane wasn't even keeping score.
He pledged not to look at a leaderboard all day, and when he rapped in a 30-inch par putt, Crane didn't even realize he had won until Ryuji Imada congratulated him.
"Did I win?" Crane asked.
With a reputation for slow play, perhaps it was only fitting that Crane was the last one to know.
Crane finished at 13-under 275 for his third career victory, ending an 0-98 drought that stretches to Milwaukee in the summer of 2005. Even as he settled in for his news conference, he wasn't sure of the perks -- a return trip to the Masters in April and Kapalua next January. He likely will crack the top 60 in the world, which should be enough to put him in the Match Play Championship.
Starting the final round two shots behind, he opened with three birdies in five holes, including one from just over 45 feet on No. 3. He expanded his lead to three shots with another 45-foot birdie putt on the 11th.
Then, it was a matter of hanging on.
"It's really cool to know I'm going in the right direction," Crane said.
He had plenty of challengers, although Phil Mickelson wasn't one of them. Making his season debut, and only four shots behind, Mickelson bogeyed his first three holes and was never a factor. He closed with a 73 and finished 19th.
Robert Allenby made a charge only to fall back by losing five shots in four holes.
Sim, the 25-year-old Australian who closed with a 71, kept with Crane the entire round and had his chances to the very end. Trailing by two, Sim was certain he had made a 15-foot birdie on the 17th hole and stopped in utter surprise when it ran over the right side of the cup. Crane then missed a par putt inside 3 feet to lose another shot off his lead.
Both laid up on the par-5 18th, and both put too much spin on their wedges that the shots rolled off the green -- Crane's against the collar, Sim's a yard off the front of the green, forcing him to chip. They settled for pars.
Sim had just under 250 yards to the hole, right on the edge of reaching the green with his 3-wood. Rather than risk his chance of winning on a fairway metal he had to hit perfect. He thought he could make birdie with his wedge, and everything went right except the spin.
"It was a perfect number, a perfect shot," he said. "It would have been nice to have a putt at it."
Snedeker closed with a 69 after narrowly missing a 12-foot birdie on the last hole. Leishman had a 68.
Michael Allen celebrated his 51st birthday with five straight birdies for a Sunday-best 65, moving him into a tie for fifth with Ernie Els (69), Rickie Fowler (70) and Alex Prugh (66), who earned a trip to Riviera next week for the Northern Trust Open.
Allenby was the first to make a move at Crane, pulling within two shots after his two-putt birdie at the 13th. But for the second straight tournament, he was a victim of the new V-groove regulation. His ball jumped out of the rough on the 14th with a 7-iron, well over the green and into the hazard. In Honolulu, another flier went through the back of the green on the last hole and he made par to lose by one.
"If you really look at it, it's cost me two tournaments, definitely," Allenby said. "I was in the groove and feeling ready to do it today, and it was such a shame that it happened."
Mickelson was four shots behind when he teed off to a hometown cheer. Within an hour, he was out of the tournament.
He pulled his bunker shot down a slope to the right of the first green, blocked by branches of a torrey pine from playing a flop shot. Using his Ping-Eye 2 wedge with square grooves that has caused so much consternation this week, he flew it onto the green and it raced some 30 feet by the cup, leading to bogey.
Two more bogeys followed, and that was that.
"I didn't feel I played as bad as the score reflected," Mickelson said after his 73. "I feel my game is coming around. I was really excited about playing here. Maybe I was a little anxious. My timing was a little off this week."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
FINGAL, Australia -- Jim Herman won the Moonah Classic for his first Nationwide Tour title, birdieing the first hole of a playoff with fellow American Chris Kirk.
Herman and Kirk closed with 2-under 70s on Sunday to finish at 11-under 277 at Moonah Links. Herman earned $126,000 in the event also sanctioned by Australasian tour.
The 32-year-old Herman, a former University of Cincinnati player who spent two years as an assistant pro at Trump National in New Jersey, opened with a course-record 62 on Thursday and led or held a share of the lead after each round.
Kirk birdied Nos. 14 and 15 to take the lead at 13 under, but dropped strokes on 16 and 17 and missed a 4-foot birdie try on 18.
In the playoff on the par-5 18th, Herman hit his approach to about 5 feet to set up his winning birdie putt. Kirk was in trouble off the tee, hitting into the left rough.
"I'd like to thank my friends and family who have stuck with me through some difficult times," Herman said at the trophy presentation.
American Robert Gates, the New Zealand Open winner last week in his Nationwide debut, shot a 66 to finish third at 10 under.
"I played great down the stretch," Gates said. "It's fun. It's been a great two weeks, and I've played very well."
American Tag Ridings (67) and Australia's Jarrod Lyle (68) were 9 under, and Colombia's Manny Villegas (67) was 8 under. Villegas is the brother of PGA Tour star Camillo Villegas.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MARANA, Ariz. -- The trophy Ian Poulter is taking home from the Match Play Championship is called the "Walter Hagen Cup."
For his first victory on American soil, perhaps that's only fitting.
Hagen, among golf's greatest players with 11 majors, was regarded as much for his snappy attire as his record four straight PGA Championships when they were match play.
The Haig would have liked this spunky Englishman.
Dressed in pink on a chilly day in the high desert, Poulter put on a short-game clinic Sunday and led over the final 28 holes on his way to a 4-and-2 victory over Paul Casey in an all-England final at the first World Golf Championship of the year.
The trophy is as stylish as anything in his wardrobe.
With his ninth career victory, and by far the biggest, Poulter moved to a personal-best No. 5 in the world ranking. And as always, he looked good getting there.
"I've had an interesting ride from a lot of people's point of view of how I present myself on the golf course, as opposed to how well I can actually perform," Poulter said. "This to me is very pleasing to be able to be in that position now. I guess [No.] 5 in the world stands for more than just what I wear on the golf course."
His short game was second to none.
Poulter seized control in the morning session with two solid chips for birdies, then effectively closed out Casey with a deft pitch up the slope -- with mud on his ball, no less -- that settled inches away for one last birdie.
"It's been a long time coming," Poulter said after closing out Casey with a par on the 34th hole. "I knew I was in great form. I felt comfortable all day on the golf course."
Casey made sure Poulter didn't work up too much of a sweat. He struggled at times with his swing in falling behind, and his short game wasn't good enough to allow him to catch up.
Casey became the first player to lose consecutive years in the championship match.
"Poulter played great," Casey said. "There were a lot of shots which I wanted to pull off and I didn't. He did a fantastic job of making putts and keeping the ball in play, and he kept the pressure on. And I got beaten."
Poulter played only 114 holes all week -- only Tiger Woods with 112 holes in 2003 played fewer -- and earned $1.4 million for the biggest check of his career.
Known mostly for what's in his closet, Poulter quickly is gaining a strong reputation for his prowess in match play. He improved his overall record in the Match Play Championship to 18-7, and was so dominant on the weekend that he trailed for only one hole over the final 50 holes of the tournament.
That came early Sunday morning, when Casey stuffed his approach to 7 feet on the second hole for an eagle that was conceded. Poulter answered immediately with a 5-iron into 8 feet on the third, then took the lead for good at No. 7 when Casey went long and took two chips to reach the green, making bogey.
Casey, who earned $850,000, had the momentum at lunch after winning two of the last four holes to cut Poulter's lead in half to 2 up at the midway point. That didn't last long, however, for Poulter opened the afternoon session by winning two straight holes with birdies to restore his lead to 4 up.
Casey tried to make one more charge, winning the ninth hole with a par and the 10th with a 15-foot birdie. Poulter had a 2-up lead with eight holes remaining, momentum on Casey's side.
But Casey couldn't make up any ground on the par 5s, and Poulter seized control for good on the 307-yard 15th, where both players drove to the right of the green. Poulter nearly holed his chip for eagle, while Casey pitched just onto the green, and his birdie putt to halve the hole caught the lip.
Casey had to return early Sunday morning just to reach the final.
Resuming his semifinal match that had been suspended by darkness, Casey won with a par after Camilo Villegas hooked his tee shot into the desert. Casey won in 24 holes, the longest match of the week.
Villegas missed a 3-foot par putt Saturday evening that would have put him in the final match. His tee shot Sunday morning was so bad that he let the driver out of his hand, and it bounced into a cactus bush. Even so, his attitude never wavered, and he bounced back in the consolation match to beat Sergio Garcia 5 and 4.
Not only was the championship match between a pair of Englishmen, both were captain's picks by Nick Faldo for the 2008 Ryder Cup. Poulter went 4-1 at Valhalla, even though Europe lost the cup. The victory moves Poulter to No. 2 on the world points and money points list for Europe.
He did all the right things in match play, mostly with his chipping and putting.
"I would say my short game, certainly this week, has been as good as it's ever been," Poulter said. "The last 12 months, it's been up there with the best of them."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PALM BEACH GARDENS, Fla. -- Camilo Villegas was checking his phone constantly on the driving range, barely bothering to hit any balls and instead seeking updates on how his brother was doing at a Nationwide Tour event in their native Colombia.
As Villegas showed all week, practice can be overrated.
Villegas shot a final-round 68 to win the Honda Classic by five shots Sunday over Anthony Kim, his third PGA Tour victory and a perfect way to cap a week that began with one celebration and ended with another.
He finished at 13-under 267, the lowest 72-hole score since the Honda moved to PGA National in 2007, four shots better than Y.E. Yang's winning total a year ago. And Villegas made it look easy most of the way, too, capping his day with a 20-footer for birdie, then raising both hands skyward.
"I've just had good vibes in me all week," Villegas said, who climbed to No. 12 in the world rankings.
Never better than Sunday.
He led by only two after Vijay Singh made a 45-foot birdie putt at the par-3 fifth, but three straight birdies -- starting with a 25-footer on No. 8 -- sent Villegas to 15 under and six shots clear of the field.
Good thing he had that cushion, because the putter stopped working after that.
Fortunately for Villegas, no one made much of a run.
"It's very special," Villegas said. "I'm just very privileged to do what I do. But trust me, it's tough. These guys are good. That is so true. Those guys are good."
He missed short par putts on 11 and 12, three-putted from 50 feet on the par-3 15th for another bogey, but never lost control of the lead and ended up pocketing the $1.008 million winner's share.
Steely eyed for most of the day, Villegas finally acknowledged the crowd as he walked up 18, waving and secure in the knowledge that he was getting his first victory since the Tour Championship in 2008.
"Fair play to him," Justin Rose said. "It was nice to even be in a position to kind of think that way, no doubt."
Kim shot 67 and Rose had by far the best round of the day, a 64 that was three shots better than anyone else. Paul Casey (67) and Singh (72) tied for fourth, seven shots back.
"I hung in there," said Kim, who got his best finish since tying for second at the season-opening Mercedes-Benz Championship in 2009. "I still haven't put four good ones together but I'm trying as hard as I can to get there. I'm working on the right things and I'm sure it will come."
Villegas didn't even play a practice round at PGA National this week, after a travel schedule that he somehow found exhilarating.
After finishing tied for eighth at the Phoenix Open, Villegas headed back to his native Colombia on Monday for a slew of events -- sponsor dinner, youth clinic, pre-tournament party, all within about a 36-hour window -- to help open the Nationwide Tour's Pacific Rubiales Bogota Open, the first PGA Tour-sanctioned event in South America.
He showed up in South Florida on Wednesday, rolled out of his own bed to start the tournament on Thursday, and just kept rolling. An opening-round 66 had him tied for second, another 66 on Friday earned him a share of the lead, and he left the course Saturday night up by three after shooting 67.
Villegas is now the fourth player who's still under 30 with at least three PGA Tour wins, joining Adam Scott (six) and Dustin Johnson and Sean O'Hair (three each).
"Tournaments are four rounds and I played three pretty good ones," Villegas said. "I was lucky in one. It's never as easy as you think. I played great the front nine, then I made a couple hiccups and missed some putts, but I stayed patient."
Rose is still looking for win No. 1 in the U.S., though he feels like he's getting closer.
Down by 10 at the start of the day, Rose needed a win to get into the CA Championship at Doral and enhance his chance of qualifying for the Masters, where he tied for fifth in 2007.
Rose opened with four straight birdies on his way to going out in 5-under 30 -- the best front nine of the tournament -- and ended up becoming the fifth player of the week to shoot 64, matching the low round on the Champion course since the Honda moved there in 2007.
He won't play Doral. Augusta remains possible, and he admits that getting back into the world's top 50 is preying on his mind.
"I think I'm where I am because I've been thinking about it too much," said Rose, who started the week 76th in the world. "I've actually been listening a little bit to Camilo. He's said 'I'm out here, I'm enjoying my golf, I'm trying to take my mindset back to when I first came out on tour' ... and that really is the nuts and bolts of what we need to do."
Sure enough, Villegas says he's more relaxed than ever.
Funny how winning helps in that regard. And when it was over, he gave one last tribute to those watching in Colombia.
"I'm sure there's a lot of people there glued to the TV, rooting me on," Villegas said.
Nathan Green played three shots from near the edge of the water at the par-3 17th, took a triple-bogey on the hole and wound up shooting 77. Most baffling: On his final shot from the mud, a second ball -- buried and apparently unseen -- came out as well. ... Sam Saunders shot 73, Arnold Palmer's grandson finishing the week even par, and topped his coach in one area: Saunders made $68,444.45 this week, while Palmer's biggest check in a tour event was $50,000 in the 1971 Westchester Classic.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DORAL, Fla. -- They call him the Big Easy because of a graceful swing that looks as if it requires so little effort.
Ernie Els worked harder than ever Sunday to win the CA Championship.
Two years without a victory -- the longest drought of his career -- and playing with all the pressure against a South African protege whom he helped groom for such a stage, Els played the final 23 holes without a bogey on the Blue Monster and closed with a 6-under 66 for a four-shot victory over Charl Schwartzel.
Els looked every bit like his nickname as he sauntered toward the 18th green, raising his cap to the crowd with an easy smile. It was as much relief as it was satisfaction.
"I'm 40 years old. I've had a tough run," Els said. "Whew! The hairs are standing up. It's just great."
He returned to among the elite in golf at No. 8 in the world and became only the fifth player to win multiple times in the World Golf Championships, joining Tiger Woods, Darren Clarke, Geoff Ogilvy and Phil Mickelson.
It didn't come easily.
Els worked on his swing until twilight in the days leading up to Doral, then put it to the test in a final round that was far closer than the margin suggested. Schwartzel, a 25-year-old who took part in Els' junior program in South Africa, never backed down.
"This means so much," Els said. "I didn't think it was ever going to happen again. But I felt all week that the work that I did, that I finally had to trust it at some stage, and there's no better day to really test yourself.
"I just wanted to prove to myself for once. Charl came at me all day. I had to come up with the goods."
Els was clinging to a one-shot lead when he stood over a 25-foot par putt on the 14th hole, relieved to see it fall on the final turn. It was the pivotal moment in the tournament, the kind that Els had been missing since his victory two years ago in the Honda Classic.
"I basically just wanted to make 5 and get out of there," Els said. "I haven't been making those kind of putts, and you have to make putts like that to win golf tournaments at some point. Luckily for me, I did it on the 14th hole today. And absolutely, I felt a lot better after that. I felt like maybe this one is for me this week."
Els finished at 18-under 270 to win for the 61st time worldwide, and 17th time on the PGA Tour.
Schwartzel, a houseguest of Els the last two weeks, caught a bad break on the 15th hole when his ball plugged in a front bunker, and he knocked that into a back bunker on his way to a crucial bogey. He missed short putts on the next two holes and closed with a 70.
"All credit to Ernie. He played flawless golf today," said Schwartzel, who earned $850,000 and will be able to take up PGA Tour membership next year. "I thought I played really good, gave a good charge. I was on his heels all the time."
It was a strong effort by Schwartzel, who has considered Els a hero since he first started playing golf. Despite two bogeys on the final four holes, he was the only player to give Els a run. And he was poised to take him down until his tee shot left him little hope in the sand.
"I plugged and that was a killer," Schwartzel said. "For me, it's been the biggest stage I've had. This is a good day for me."
Padraig Harrington fell out of the with three straight bogeys on the back nine, closing with a 72 to tie for third at 11-under 277 along with Matt Kuchar (68) and Martin Kaymer of Germany, who had a 69 and moved up to No. 7 in the world.
Alistair Presnell of Australia matched the best round of the day with a 64 and tied for sixth. Defending champion Mickelson, who was never in the mix, shot a 68 and tied for 14th.
Els could not have imagined being in the final group at Doral with Schwartzel, and to see the two South Africans standing on the first tee under warm sunshine, it was easy to see what he meant.
To think that Schwartzel was 2 when his father and Els won a club tournament together, or that he was among the gangly teens who traveled with the Ernie Els & Fancourt Foundation junior team. More recently, Els invited the Schwartzel to stay in his south Florida home while Schwartzel was passing time between two WGC events.
And they stayed together for so much of the final round, trading birdies and keeping their names atop the leaderboard.
Els made birdie from the bunker on the opening hole. Schwartzel answered with a 25-foot birdie on the second. Els followed with two straight birdies, the most impressive on the 223-yard fourth with a shot into 8 feet despite a vicious right-to-left wind. Schwartzel fell three shots behind with a bogey from the bunker on No. 5, only to birdie his next three holes.
No one else joined the chase.
Els suddenly has good vibes as he begins his road to the Masters, the one major that has haunted him throughout his career. His victory was worth $1.4 million, and moved him past Colin Montgomerie and atop the PGA European Tour career money list with about $33.6 million.
Next up is his charity event Monday to raise money for autism, a major cause for Els since learning his son, Ben, is autistic. Ben is 7, and Els says he is a few years away from appreciating what his father accomplished Sunday.
"We'll show him the tape," Els said. "I think he'll get excited about it."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ANAHEIM, Calif. -- As a somber Tiger Woods hunkered down for his nationally televised mea culpa last month, his longtime pal and the head of his charitable foundation, Greg McLaughlin, was perched in a front-row seat just to the golfer's left. Also among the select few invited and traveling across country to PGA Tour headquarters in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., to witness Woods' scripted performance were four of his foundation's vice presidents.
The best professional golfer of his generation had barely begun his 13 1/2-minute apology, fresh off a mention of his wife and young children, when he broached the impact his personal transgressions have had on his Tiger Woods Foundation. Woods offered apologies to the foundation staff, the corporate sponsors who in the past had so eagerly backed his charitable endeavors, and the young people touched by his efforts. "I know I have bitterly disappointed all of you," he said slowly, carefully. "I have made you question who I am and how I could have done the things I did. I am embarrassed that I have put you in this position."
The sponsors of his foundation haven't jumped ship, even as some such as AT&T and Accenture have severed ties with Woods himself. And if the foundation folks hired by Tiger thought his transgressions embarrassing, they're not letting on. As if reading from the same talking points, they profess to be so consumed by their work -- most specifically the daily operation of the Tiger Woods Learning Center here in Southern California -- that they pay no mind to the salacious accounts of his female conquests, or even the question of when he'll resurface on the PGA Tour. They say the busloads of students still show up daily, and the lone concern voiced by parents is whether the educational programs and scholarships might go away.
"I was certainly disappointed when I heard all of this," says McLaughlin, the foundation president, who met his future boss when Tiger was a scrawny teenager with a grown man's golf game. "I think the fact that he acknowledged that he made mistakes and is working to rehabilitate himself and be a better person, that is what I took from it."
McLaughlin indicated he has spoken with Woods a "few times" over the past three months, with the gist of the conversations being that Tiger has made clear that, despite the distractions and upheaval in his personal life, he remains committed to his foundation.
"I think at least relative to our staff and our board and our sponsors, which are three vital components, as well as our constituents -- our kids -- everyone has been very supportive," McLaughlin says. "And everyone believes in the work that we are doing. They're very focused on that. And they have been supportive of our mission. So for us, nothing has really changed."
That sentiment rings true judging by appearances at the learning center, an airy two-story structure that sits on 14 acres overlooking a driving range and a series of putting greens. On a recent afternoon, junior high and high school students huddled around computers finishing homework. Another smaller group could be seen working on a rocketry project. Others were in after-school programs filming videos or being introduced to an impressive cadre of career choices such as biotechnology and forensic science, all of which supplement programs available in local schools.
Opened in 2006 on land leased from Orange County, the place has the feel of a small college campus, with spacious commons, the bells and whistles of "smart classroom" technology and at least 300 laptops available to bright, engaged kids. A huge bronze sculpture of Woods and his father sits just inside the main entrance. A large photo of former President Bill Clinton and Woods cutting the ribbon at the center's opening hangs in a corridor.
And -- not surprisingly -- the center has a golf academy and two instructors on staff to school those interested in Tiger's game.
Inside the 240-seat Target Auditorium (Target was a founding sponsor), Roman Gonzales is heard lecturing his class of 11 beginners on more than just the toe, heel and face of a golf club before heading out to the driving range. "You need a 2.0 [grade-point average] if you want to be part of this program and play golf," says Gonzales, outfitted with a black Nike windbreaker. "You can be the greatest golfer, but you need good grades if you expect to play in high school or collegiately.  The focus here is simple: Get better at golf and maintain your grades. This place will help you get through high school and to college. People are here to help. Just ask."
Say what you like about Tiger's boorish behavior and marital infidelities, but, if nothing else, he's put his franchise name and millions of dollars in the right place. According to those who monitor nonprofit foundations, few athletes are in his class when it comes to charitable endeavors, the most notable being cyclist Lance Armstrong -- whose foundation last year donated $50 million to cancer research -- and the likes of former tennis champion Andre Agassi and NBA star Yao Ming.
Back in 1996, when he turned pro, Woods and his late father, Earl, created the Tiger Woods Foundation as a vehicle to educate and provide grants and scholarships to benefit young people. The venture has grown to include three related nonprofits bearing the golfer's name: the Tiger Woods Foundation in Irvine, the Tiger Woods Charity Event Corporation and the Tiger Woods Learning Center in Anaheim. According to the latest federal tax filings, the nonprofits have amassed a combined $75 million in net assets.
While the learning center is an impressive physical structure, the more well-known Tiger Woods Foundation serves as the primary vehicle to distribute grants and individual college scholarships. In the most recent tax year, the foundation awarded $2.9 million, with its largest grant of $817,000 transferred to Woods' learning center in Anaheim. The bulk of the grants are $5,000 and less, though other more notable recent gifts include those made to the International Youth Foundation in Baltimore ($350,000), the Metropolitan Tulsa Urban League ($150,000) and the Musical Instrument Museum in Phoenix and Youth Sports Trust in London (each $100,000).
As for the modest number of recipients tied to sports, a $50,000 check was written to the Boston Red Sox Foundation, as well as $15,000 to the Joe Nuxhall Children's Center in Fairfield, Ohio, and $5,000 to the Cal Ripken Sr. Foundation.
However, the moneymaking vehicle driving Woods' foundation is the Tiger Woods Charity Event Corporation, which functions as an event planning company and draws the revenues to fund the foundation and learning center. It annually stages glitzy events such as the AT&T National Golf Tournament, the Chevron World Challenge Golf Tournament, the Tiger Jam Benefit Concert and the Tiger Woods Block Party in Orange County.
While charity watchdogs generally give the foundation high marks, some question the significant expenses incurred by the nonprofit in hosting these events. On its most recent tax return, the Tiger Woods Charity Event Corporation reported having spent $32.7 million staging the two golf tournaments -- including $15 million in television network fees and tourney purses -- and star-studded entertainment events like the Tiger Jam, while turning a $3.5 million profit.
"If you have a ratio of $32 million [expenses] and $3 million [profit], you are so upside-down it isn't funny," says Marc Pollick, founder and president of the Giving Back Fund, which manages and consults with philanthropic foundations. "What it is doing is paying a lot of salaries to event planners and to vendors and directors, and a little bit goes to charity."
McLaughlin defends the foundation's practices, saying its staging of the golf events follows the PGA Tour model, and that the AT&T and Chevron stops rank among the leading charitable events on the tour. According to the most recent federal tax filings, the event corporation transferred $2.95 million to Woods' foundation.
The $503,138 compensation paid McLaughlin has also come under scrutiny by watchdogs. McLaughlin, a lawyer by trade, befriended Woods in 1992 when he gave the then-16-year-old golfer an exemption into his first PGA Tour event, the then-Nissan Los Angeles Open. At the time, McLaughlin was the tournament director in Los Angeles.
According to IRS records filed in September 2008, McLaughlin received an annual salary of $398,456 based on a 40-hour work week by the Tiger Woods Charitable Event Corporation, as well as $104,682 in salary for 25 hours a week of service to the Tiger Woods Foundation.
"That is pretty significant for the head of any large charity," says Ian Wilhelm of the Chronicle of Philanthropy, which monitors salaries paid to nonprofit executives. Wilhelm added that it is not, however, so out of line as to create an issue with the IRS.
By comparison, records indicate that the head of Lance Armstrong's foundation, Doug Ulman ($257,774), is paid slightly more than half that figure. Similar 2008 filings reveal that Katherine Bihr, the educator overseeing the Tiger Woods Learning Center -- which is at the center of the foundation's work -- was paid $144,468.
McLaughlin reports to the foundations' board members, including Woods' longtime agent, Mark Steinberg, who serves on the board of all three of the golfer's foundations. At least four other individuals serve on both the primary foundation and learning center boards, including Woods' mother, Kultida. Former U.S. Olympic boss and baseball commissioner Peter Ueberroth and tennis great Lindsay Davenport are among the 26 learning center board members.
Noticeably absent from any of the three boards is Woods' wife, Elin Nordegren. McLaughlin said he couldn't speculate on the absence of a formal role, adding, "I can tell you Elin has been very involved in the foundation."
McLaughlin estimates that Woods, 34, himself logs up to 15 days a year making appearances at foundation events, not counting time spent in board meetings and in related telephone conversations. In 2006 and 2007, Woods contributed a combined $10.85 million of his own money to his foundations, ranking him in the top 30 of celebrity philanthropists for both years, according to the Giving Back Fund. In 2008, the most recent year for which data was collected, he did not make the list.
"The biggest role Tiger has had is as a visionary for the center," says Bihr, who directs the learning center in Anaheim. "He was involved in knowing about the [educational] program and approving it, obviously. He has hired us to run it and put the programs in place."
For now, with his once-gold-plated image tarnished, Woods' foundation might be one of the few things he has going for him. His charitable works at least paint the picture of a guy trying to do good. Ultimately, though, the foundation depends upon Woods being able to pick up his clubs and rebuild the Tiger brand with corporate sponsors.
To what degree he'll be successful -- and the future of his charitable endeavors -- remains unclear.
Things already had slowed a bit even before Woods' sex scandal. Two years ago, plans were disclosed for a second learning center in Washington, D.C., but McLaughlin says there is still nothing formal to announce. McLaughlin was in Washington recently and indicated that two or three potential sites have been evaluated, but added that it remains unclear at this point whether a new facility would be built or an existing building purchased.
And, in the wake of his self-imposed exile from golf that will end at the Masters, Woods has not only personally lost millions in endorsement dollars and winnings, but his foundation has also started feeling financial repercussions. When he skipped the Chevron World Challenge, the popular stop he hosts in December benefiting the foundation, tourney officials refunded $25,000 in ticket sales and offered a 20 percent discount on next year's orders for those who attended the 2009 event.
McLaughlin says no "post-analysis" of the Southern California event has been conducted, though he acknowledged it's possible attendance for the event might have been down 10 to 15 percent. "That event was very successful, but there is an impact you get more from the standpoint of the gate, walk-up and ticket sales," he says. "Clearly there is some impact when he is not playing."
As far as sponsors, McLaughlin says none have walked away from obligations to Woods' foundation. That includes AT&T, which ended its business relationship with Tiger but will honor an agreement to serve as title sponsor of the summer PGA Tour event it sponsors through 2014.
"AT&T would look kind of bad if they reneged on that," says Daniel Borochoff, president of the American Institute of Philanthropy. "Sponsors have already walked away from him, but if you walk away from the foundation it could cause problems from a PR standpoint, because you are helping kids."
Whether sponsors will stick around after their contracts expire is less clear.
For now, as he did last month in the controlled setting at PGA Tour headquarters, Tiger and his handlers would be smart to steer the conversation toward his foundation and its good work with young people.
"I can't speculate from an image-rebuilding [perspective]," says McLaughlin, when asked if the foundation could help Woods start winning back the public. "I can tell you that he's very committed to the work we have done. And he's committed to that. That has been unwavering."
Mike Fish is an investigative reporter for ESPN.com. He can be reached at Michaeljfish@gmail.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tiger Woods will make his highly anticipated return to competitive golf at the Masters, ending a four-month hiatus brought on by a sex scandal.
The world's No. 1-ranked player, who has never missed the year's first major as a professional, announced in a statement  Tuesday that Augusta National Golf Club will be the site of his comeback.
"The Masters is where I won my first major and I view this tournament with great respect. After a long and necessary time away from the game, I feel like I'm ready to start my season at Augusta," Woods said in a statement.
"The major championships have always been a special focus in my career and, as a professional, I think Augusta is where I need to be, even though it's been a while since I last played."
The Masters is scheduled for April 8-11. Since World War II, only one player has made his first official event of the year the Masters and gone on to win -- Ben Hogan in 1951 and 1953.
Billy Payne, chairman of Augusta National and the tournament, said: "We support Tiger's decision to return to competitive golf beginning at this year's Masters Tournament. Additionally, we support and encourage his stated commitment to continue the significant work required to rebuild his personal and professional life."
Woods is a four-time Masters champion, although he has not won at Augusta National since 2005, his longest drought there.
"We were pleased to learn that Tiger Woods will be playing the Masters in a few weeks," PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem said in a statement. "He has invested a lot of time taking steps, both in his personal and professional life, in order to prepare for his return. We all wish him and his family the best as he rejoins the Tour."
"We look forward to Tiger's return to the Masters and seeing him back on the course," Nike, Woods' longtime sponsor, said in a statement.
The Masters had been seen as a strong possibility for Woods' comeback, due to the relative scarcity of tickets and Augusta National's tight control of the event, which extends to media coverage.
The Richmond County (Ga.) Sheriff's Office, which assists the private firm hired to provide security for the Masters, has not been asked for changes to the security plan and is not expecting any major problems, the Augusta Chronicle reported.
"We have that place sealed up tight," Richmond County Col. Gary Powell said, according to the report.
Woods last played Nov. 15, when he won the Australian Masters in Melbourne for his 82nd career victory. His world unraveled less than two weeks later -- he was involved in a one-car crash outside his Florida home that required a hospital visit and led to a series of revelations about his personal life that included a subsequent admission of multiple affairs.
"I have undergone almost two months of in-patient therapy and I am continuing my treatment," Woods said in his statement. "Although I'm returning to competition, I still have a lot of work to do in my personal life."
Woods eventually confessed to infidelity and said Dec. 11 he would take an "indefinite break" from golf. Woods spoke publicly for the first time Feb. 19 at TPC Sawgrass, where he confessed to cheating on his wife, Elin.
"I have made you question who I am and how I could have done the things I did," Woods said that day.
He was in a Mississippi clinic from Dec. 31 until Feb. 11, then went to an Arizona clinic for a week of family counseling. He returned to practice when he got home to Isleworth, and swing coach Hank Haney joined him last week.
By choosing the Masters, Woods will skip next week's Arnold Palmer Invitational, which he has won the past two years and six times overall. He is also skipping next week's Tavistock Cup, an exhibition played at Isleworth.
This will be the first time Woods has missed Bay Hill, the only regular PGA Tour event he always has played as a professional.
"When I finally got into a position to think about competitive golf again, it became apparent to me that the Masters would be the earliest I could play," Woods said. "I called both Joe Lewis and Arnold Palmer and expressed my regrets for not attending the Tavistock Cup and the Arnold Palmer Invitational. I again want to thank them both for their support and their understanding. Those are fantastic tournaments and I look forward to competing in them again.
"I would also like to thank the Augusta National members and staff for their support. I have deep appreciation for everything that they do to create a wonderful event for the benefit of the game."
Palmer said Woods sounded good in their conversation.
"He had some zip in his voice," Palmer told the Golf Channel. "He sounded just fine. He knows what he wants to do with his life and the way he's going to handle it, and I guess we're going to give him that respect. I would think for Tiger it's going to be tough. It's going to be something that's going to take him a little time to get used to.
"He expressed his regret for not being able to play. He said that he was sorry, that he really didn't feel his game was up to speed to start playing this early. "
Rocco Mediate, who engaged Woods in an epic playoff battle in the 2008 U.S. Open at Torrey Pines, thought Woods would return at Bay Hill.
"It's easy, it's close. But he may not be ready," Mediate said. "I don't know. I haven't talked to him. I'm not really surprised. It's the safest place. It's the most controlled place.''
Mediate also said that he expects Woods to be at the top of his game.
"He's won four [Masters titles]," Mediate said. "That's probably his favorite golf course, I would think. There is some room for error off the tee. Not much anymore. But there's some. And for the distance that man hits it ..."
Woods last played on the PGA Tour in the Tour Championship on Sept. 28, where he finished second. His layoff between the Australian Masters and U.S. Masters will be 144 days -- the second-longest of his career. He missed 256 days recovering from knee surgery in 2009.
"We want the best player in the world out playing golf again," longtime rival Jim Furyk said. "He's got to do what's best for him. I realize looking at the big picture it's good for everyone. What's good for the best player in the world is probably good for the big picture and the PGA Tour."
Already the major with the highest TV ratings, this Masters could be the biggest yet. The first two rounds are televised on ESPN, with CBS Sports showing the final two.
"Obviously, the ratings will be off the chart," PGA Tour player Heath Slocum said. "It will be interesting to watch -- not only the reaction from him, but from the fans, the media, the players. I would venture to say he might be nervous."
The governing body of golf outside the United States said it hoped Woods would play at The Open Championship in July.
"We're pleased to hear that Tiger is to return to golf. ... Golf needs the world No. 1 to be playing," Royal & Ancient spokesman Malcolm Booth said.
Woods has not yet entered to play at the British Open at St. Andrews, but has until May 27 to send in his entry form. Booth says it's "normal that he hasn't" entered yet.
Woods has won titles at three of the four major championship venues this year -- Augusta National, Pebble Beach (site of the U.S. Open in June) and St. Andrews. The PGA Championship is at Whistling Straits in Wisconsin, where Woods tied for 24th six years ago when the event was first held there.
Bob Harig is the golf writer for ESPN.com. Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Tiger Woods delivered a few memorable shots of his own Thursday at Quail Hollow on a pleasant day that produced birdies and eagles and plenty of excitement.
It's just not what he had in mind.
He hit a tee shot into the water on the par-3 17th that produced little reaction except to hold out his hand for another ball. He hit his next tee shot into the water and had to scramble for bogey. And he wound up with a 2-over 74 that left him nine shots behind Bo Van Pelt and ended his streak of 21 straight rounds at par or better.
"I hit a bunch of balls left, I hit a bunch of balls right, hit a few down the middle," Woods said. "And that was about it."
For everyone else -- Masters champion Phil Mickelson included with his 70 -- there was so much more.
Mickelson had a severe stomach ailment that forced him to withdraw from the pro-am Wednesday, and he started feeling it when he climbed the steep hill to the 15th green. He two-putted for birdie to reach 4-under for his round, only to three-putt from the fringe on the 17th and made another bogey from the trees on the 18th.
"I may have run out of energy there toward the end, but I hit some good shots and was able to shoot a decent round," Mickelson said.
Van Pelt is using an old putter that he had refurbished, and he already got strong results in Hilton Head two weeks ago with a tie for third, his best finish of the year. The opening round of the Quail Hollow Championship was even better, as Van Pelt made birdie on all the par-5s and made it through the tough closing stretch with all pars.
Kenny Perry shot a 66 and didn't let the finish ruin his day. After a flawless shot into eight feet for eagle on the par-5 seventh, he hit his drive 35 yards short of the green on the par-4 eighth and had an open angle at the pin. But he didn't commit to the delicate wedge, and the ball rolled back to his feet. That turned potential birdie -- and the outright lead -- into a bogey.
"One little blunder," Perry said. "But it was a fun round of golf. It's been a long time since I've played like that."
Camilo Villegas played bogey-free for a 67, while the group at 68 featured a collection of players that included former U.S. Open champion Geoff Ogilvy, Monday qualifier Billy Mayfair and Brad Faxon, who has made only two cuts this year while spending time working for NBC Sports.
"When you start trending like I did with a 74th-place finish last week, you could see this coming," Faxon said, laughing.
The course played to an average score of 73.25, with 14 players shooting in the 60s and 66 players at par or better.
Van Pelt would not have guessed that, certainly not from what he saw earlier in the week with the fairways firm and the greens running as fast as they ever have.
"The greens have so much slope and they're so fast," Van Pelt said. "You can hit it in there close and you're just trying to two-putt. It's pretty tricky around the hole. I just tried to take advantage of the opportunities I had, and this is one of those golf courses where if it's going good, you'd better try to get it. Because it can jump up and grab you in a heartbeat."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -- One day after Lorena Ochoa retired, there's a new No. 1 in women's golf.
Jiyai Shin of South Korea moved to the top of the women's world ranking Monday after winning on the Japan LPGA Tour. The victory gave her an average of 9.29 points, narrowly ahead of Ochoa at 9.20.
Ai Miyazato of Japan, who won the LPGA event in Mexico, is now at No. 3.
Ochoa had been No. 1 for 158 weeks since overtaking Annika Sorenstam in April 2007.
Shin was the LPGA Tour rookie of the year last season when she captured the money list and narrowly won player of the year.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
TURIN, Italy -- Fredrik Andersson Hed of Sweden won the Italian Open by two shots Sunday after shooting a 1-over 73, his first tournament victory in 245 attempts.
Andersson Hed, who led by six strokes heading into the last day, totaled 16-under 272 at the Royal Park course to end a 13-year drought and pick up $285,877 in prize money.
"It means a lot for me to win, both ranking wise on the Tour and self-belief," said Andersson Hed, who first joined the tour in 1992 but has had 14 visits to its qualifying school. "I was very tense over the final round, especially the front nine, and then only felt relaxed a bit when I hit some good shots on 10 and 11. But it is not so much a weight off my shoulders that much as a joy after all the hard work I have put in over the years.
"I have had a couple of chances already this year, and I felt if I kept doing what I was doing I would have a chance and hopefully stay on top one day."
David Horsey shot a 68 to finish second, his best result of the season. The Englishman drew level with Andersson Hed at the 13th hole, but blew any chance of claiming his first Tour victory by bogeying the final hole.
Peter Gustafsson of Sweden (66), Nicola Colsearts of Belgium (70) and Chris Wood of England (70) shared third place at 276.
Italian teenager Matteo Manasssero (71) ended his first event as a professional in a tie for 29th at 283. The 17-year-old Manasssero's next event will be the BMW PGA Championship at Wentworth starting May 20.
"I am already liking the lifestyle of a professional," Manasssero said. "I had much crowd support this week and I am enjoying it."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
TOKYO -- Japanese teenager Ryo Ishikawa said Friday he has received an invitation to play in the PGA Championship in August.
Ishikawa, who earlier this month shot a 12-under 58 -- the lowest score ever on a major tour -- is also scheduled to compete in the U.S. Open next month and the British Open in July.
The 18-year-old Ishikawa will play in all four majors for the first time in his career. He missed the cut at this year's Masters by one stroke.
Ishikawa has won seven tournaments in Japan and took the 2009 Japan tour money title.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HENDERSON, Nev. -- Police were looking for a prescription anxiety medication when they searched a Nevada doctor's house and office in the investigation of the death of LPGA golfer Erica Blasberg, court records show.
Henderson police reported confiscating several computers, two video cameras, a cell phone and a global positioning system from Dr. Thomas Hess' home, according to an inventory filed after the May 13 searches. Police also seized white plastic trash bags and a computer from Hess' medical office.
Hess, a family practice physician, referred questions Tuesday to his lawyer, Charles Kelly. Kelly declined to comment.
The search warrant issued by a Henderson judge shows police were looking for alprazolam, an anti-anxiety medication also known as Xanax, plus a particular type of white medium-sized trash bags and samples of Hess' handwriting.
Blasberg, 25, died May 9 at her home in the suburban hills of Henderson, about 15 miles southeast of the Las Vegas Strip.
Henderson police have not said how she died, and department spokesman Keith Paul declined again Tuesday to release information about what he called an ongoing investigation.
Police have said a 911 call that summoned police came from the house and that Blasberg was alone when officers arrived. Blasberg's agent said her bags were packed for a tournament in Mobile, Ala., when she was found.
Clark County Coroner Mike Murphy has said it could be late June before toxicology results are complete and he can rule on a cause and manner of death.
Blasberg's father and golf coach, Mel Blasberg, said Tuesday he never remembered hearing his daughter mention Hess' name.
"She talked about a doctor she played golf with at Southern Highlands who was her doctor," Mel Blasberg said, referring to a golf club about a mile from Hess' home. "She never mentioned his name to me."
Mel Blasberg said his daughter knew LPGA rules about medications and random drug testing and was careful about what she took.
He said he knew she took an anti-inflammatory medication for arthritis, antibiotics for bronchitis and anxiety medication for long airline flights.
"We have to wait for this investigation to reach its finale," Blasberg said, adding that police were not sharing information with him about the case. "I'm reluctant to say anything else."
Erica Blasberg grew up in Southern California and was in her sixth season on the LPGA Tour when she died. Her best year on the tour was 2008, when she earned more than $113,000.
Blasberg played one event this season, tying for 44th in the April 29-May 2 Tres Marias Championship in Morelia, Mexico.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP, N.J. -- Once Ai Miyazato of Japan stopped worrying about becoming the No. 1 player in women's golf, getting there was easy.
Dominating the LPGA Tour in a way akin to Annika Sorenstam and Lorena Ochoa, Miyazato cruised to her fourth win of the year and took over the top spot in women's golf with an impressive two-shot victory over M.J. Hur of South Korea in the reborn $1.5 million ShopRite LPGA Classic on Sunday.
The Rolex rankings won't be announced until Monday, but the LPGA said Miyazato will be No. 1.
"When I started playing in the States, that's when I really started thinking about being No. 1," Miyazato said. "That became a dream of mine, especially watching Annika and Lorena play. Now that I am No. 1, I still can't believe it, but I do feel very comfortable with it."
Miyazato, who turned 25 on Saturday, shot a 7-under 64 in winning for the first time in the United States, and for the fifth time since joining the tour in 2006.
Miyazato was machinelike on Seaview's Bay Course on Sunday in the shadow of Atlantic City. She started the final round of the 54-hole tournament two shots behind Hur and she had a piece of the lead after making a 15-foot birdie at No. 2 and a tap-in on the par-5 third hole. A 3-foot birdie on No. 9 gave her sole possession of the lead and she opened daylight with a 15-footer on No. 10 and a 30-footer for birdie on the 14th hole.
The birdie on 10 came after she played out of a fairway bunker.
"I believe in myself and the game and no matter what the situation is or the pressure is I feel like I can play my game," said Miyazato, who had seven birdies and no bogeys over the final 18 holes.
While the winning margin was two shots, it was really never that close. Hur, the second-round leader, had to birdie the final three holes just to get second place.
Even when the 20-year-old Hur, who was playing in the group behind Miyazato, drew to within two shots with birdies at Nos. 16 and 17, the Japanese star responded. She hit her third shot within 10 feet and made the birdie.
"I said to myself I need one more good swing, one more good putt," Miyazato said. "So it was a good self-talk and I was really able to stay in control of myself out there."
Miyazato had a 54-hole total of 16-under 197 to earn a winner's check of $225,000, pushing her earnings this year to $830,238.
Her earlier wins this year were in Thailand, Singapore and Mexico. Her first LPGA win came last year in France.
Miyazato will replace Jiyai Shin of South Korea atop the rankings. Shin has missed the last two tournaments after undergoing an appendectomy. She hopes to return to the tour in next week's LPGA Championship in Rochester, N.Y.
Shin took over the top spot after Ochoa retired earlier this year to focus on starting a family.
The thought of becoming No. 1 distracted Miyazato in recent weeks and it led to her missing the cut in last weekend's State Farm Classic. She had a long talk with her caddie Mike Seaborn on Wednesday.
"We had a really good talk about the world rank, and what I need to do to focus right now," Miyazato said. "So that's why I got so clear about this week and started again focus my swing and every single shot."
Hur, who led the State Farm Classic after 36 holes last week before faltering and slipped to a tie for 16th, got a chance to play against Miyazato recently in the second round of the Sybase Classic, a match play event.
"She's just gorgeous," said Hur, who was looking for her second career win. "She hits straight and has good putts, so I think she plays really simple. I want to be playing that, too."
Fellow South Korean Inbee Park, the 2008 U.S. Women's Open champion, had a final-round 67 and finished third at 12 under, four shots behind the winner.
Suzann Pettersen of Norway, South Korea's Hee-Won Han and Katherine Hull of Australia shared fourth place at 11 under, one shot ahead of Paula Creamer, who had a spectacular return in her first tournament since surgery on her left thumb in March.
"I take some positives out of this," said Creamer, who shot a 71. "To have a chance to win on Sunday and to get those nerves out, to get back in that competitive mode on the last day is something that I would have been grateful for if somebody told me last week. You know I didn't win, but I played great."
Miyazato just played better, which is what she has been doing all year on the LPGA Tour.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CROMWELL, Conn. -- Bubba Watson really wanted to play well at the Travelers Championship to impress U.S. Ryder Cup captain Corey Pavin.
He did.
Watson overcame a six-stroke deficit Sunday to force a playoff with Pavin and Scott Verplank, then beat Verplank with a par on the second playoff hole.
Watson, the long-hitting left-hander from the Florida Panhandle, closed with a 4-under 66 to match Verplank (64) and Pavin (66) at 14 under. Pavin dropped out on the first extra hole.
After making a 3-footer on the par-3 16th to win, Watson hugged wife Angie and began crying. He said he was so nervous, he could not feel his arms on the final putt.
"I'm a very emotional guy," he said. "I cry all the time. When I go to church on Sunday, I cry at church. I couldn't get the 'Yes' out of 'I do' at my wedding. The pastor said, 'You got to say it. You can't just nod. You can't nod.'
"Everybody has issues. My family had some issues. My dad is battling cancer. My wife last year thought she had a tumor in her brain. We got lucky with that one, and now, we're battling with my dad. It's emotional."
It was the largest comeback on the tour since Padraig Harrington also came from six back to win the 2007 British Open.
Verplank left his tee shot short and left of the green on the second playoff hole and missed an 8-foot par putt. Watson, who had a 48-footer for birdie, was able to steady his nerves enough to get it close.
The 50-year-old Pavin, who was taking a break from the Champions Tour to scout players for the Ryder Cup, was eliminated on the first playoff hole after hitting his tee shot just 219 yards (101 yards shorter than Watson) and putting his approach into a bunker short of the 18th green. He chipped to 3 feet, earning a standing ovation.
"The playoff was a little disappointing to me," he said. "I kind of popped up a three-wood there and left myself in a pretty precarious spot."
"Now, it's just time to go back and play with golfers my own age," he added.
Justin Rose, coming off his first PGA Tour win this month at the Memorial, had a three-stroke lead entering the round. But the 29-year-old Englishman shot a 75 to tie for ninth at 11 under.
"It was obviously my tournament to lose," Rose said. "I could have shot 1-over par today and won the golf tournament. It's disappointing. It wasn't overly difficult today."
Watson almost won on the first playoff hole, hitting a sand wedge within an inch of the cup from 128 yards out.
But Verplank made an 8-foot birdie putt to extend the playoff.
Verplank started the day in 13th place, eight strokes behind Rose, while Pavin and Watson were both six back.
Verplank eagled the 13th and 15th holes to move into contention. But a birdie try on 17 lipped the cup.
"When I holed it on 15, I looked at the leaderboard, and I wasn't that far back. I needed to birdie one of the last couple holes," Verplank said.
The crowd began chanting "USA! USA!" after Pavin made a 32-foot birdie putt on 17 hole that broke sharply from left to right and put him into contention.
He said he wouldn't put himself on the Ryder Cup team, even if he had won.
"Being captain is pretty tough, just to do that," he said. "Arnold Palmer was the last one to do that, and that was a different era, a different time. I wouldn't have played."
Watson had led briefly after four birdies on the back nine put him at 15 under. But he hit his tee shot on 17 into a bunker, and topped his second shot into the water on the way to a double bogey.
But he didn't quit. He hit his tee shot 396 yards off the cart path, and made a 6-foot birdie putt to get into the playoff.
"I guess you can't say I choked, because I came back and birdied the next hole and now I'm the champion," he said.
No player in the first three groups made it into the playoff.
Rose held the lead until he missed a 10-foot par putt on 10 and moved into a three-way tie with playing partner Ben Curtis and Verplank.
Rose lost the lead after a bogey on the 12th hole, then hit his tee shot on 15 into the water on his way to a double bogey.
Curtis, who bogeyed just two holes in the tournament coming into Sunday, hit his tee shot on 12 out of bounds to the left, and made a double bogey. Both he and Rose bogeyed 16. Curtis finished with a 73 to tie for 13th at 10 under.
Chris Riley began the day at 8 under, but eagled the par-4 14th from 155 yards and was 5 under on the back nine. He finished a stroke out of the playoff at 13 under.
"I bogeyed my first two holes and, I was like, 'Ho, hum. Here we go,'" he said. "I was in something like 45th place. What makes this course so great is you can make up ground."
Watson ended Europe's tour winning streak at three. Northern Ireland's Graeme McDowell won the big prize last week at the U.S. Open. The Memorial was Rose's first tour win, and fellow Englishman Lee Westwood won the St. Jude Classic.
Watson earned $1.08 million and moved into eighth place in the FedEx Cup rankings.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
TOLEDO, Ohio -- The Jamie Farr Owens Corning Classic will take a year off in 2011 before returning for at least three more years, LPGA and tournament officials said.
LPGA commissioner Michael Whan made the announcement at a dinner Tuesday night in Toledo, Ohio, before this year's Farr Classic.
Whan says the tournament will take the hiatus because its organizers will be running the U.S. Senior Open in Toledo in July 2011. They had concerns about whether it would be economically viable to stage two major golf events in the area around the same time.
The commissioner says the LPGA has signed a deal to continue the Farr Classic in 2012, 2013 and 2014.
The 26th Farr Classic begins Thursday at Highland Meadows Golf Club in suburban Toledo.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SILVIS, Ill. -- Steve Stricker is making it look easy.
He insists that it's not, even after posting stunningly low scores.
Stricker already has broken a couple of PGA Tour records at the John Deere Classic and has more in sight after opening a six-stroke lead with a 9-under 62 on Saturday.
That followed rounds of 60 and 66 at the TPC Deere Run course, which has stood no chance against the assault Stricker and his fellow players have launched.
"It's never easy going out there," Stricker said. "It wasn't easy to start the round today. Coming to the course I felt like I'd never been in this position. I was nervous. I didn't feel like doing anything. I just wanted to get out there and starting playing."
And play he did.
Stricker's masterful round left the tournament's defending champion at 25-under 188, the best 54-hole score in PGA Tour history. He also has the best three-round score in relation to par. With a 65 Sunday, he'd break the 72-hole record of 254.
So dominant was Stricker that Jeff Maggert shot a 63 and lost ground. Paul Goydos, golf's latest Mr. 59 after a magical round on Thursday, played well enough to keep pace in most tournaments, just not this one.
It would be hard for anyone to keep up with Stricker the way he's playing.
The 43-year-old from Madison, Wis., hit accurate approaches to give himself short putts for birdies in most cases and he deftly extricated himself the only two times he got in trouble.
So just what's going on here?
"If I knew, I would bottle this," Stricker said. "I don't know what's going on."
Maggert, who started the day five shots behind Stricker, was at 19-under 194 and tied with Goydos, who trailed Stricker by just one stroke going into the round. Playing in the last group with Stricker, Goydos saw his deficit grow steadily as his partner drilled birdie putts on seven of the last 11 holes.
Former PGA Champion Shaun Micheel also shot a 63 -- and found himself 10 strokes off the lead. Rocco Mediate made a hole-in-one and an eagle en route to a 64 but trailed by 14. Matt Jones wriggled into fourth place with a 66 that left him nine strokes back.
"Stricker's nine in front of me, so you'd have to have something miraculous happen to him," Jones said. "That's not going to happen the way he's playing, so my goal now is to play for second."
Still, Stricker remained wary. He had a six-stroke lead on the final day of the Northern Trust Open at Riviera earlier this year and ended up winning by two.
"This course yields low scores, so you've got to be cautious that somebody can come from behind and post a low one and catch you," he said. "So that's going to be my mindset -- play my own game and try to make as many birdies as I can."
Mediate's early score and those of Vaughn Taylor (64), Kenny Perry (65) and Gary Woodland (65) indicated that the course -- the greens in particular -- again was ripe for scoring.
"They would hold anything you threw in there," the 49-year-old Perry said of the greens. "It's definitely a birdie fest out there right now."
It certainly was for Stricker.
He has 27 birdies for the tournament, giving him a shot at the Tour record of 32 for a 72-hole event, a mark shared by Mark Calcavecchia and Paul Gow.
Stricker broke the 54-hole record of 189 shared by Calcavecchia, John Cook and Tommy Armour III, with Calcavecchia and Cook both 24 under. Armour also holds the 72-hole record, in the 2003 Texas Open at The Resort at LaCantera, a par-70 course.
"These three rounds are probably my best three rounds put together anywhere, for sure," said Stricker, who's No. 4 in the world rankings. "But that said, the last five years have been good. I don't believe that it's happened at times, but then again, I always felt like I had something in me that I could perform at a high level."
For now, his thoughts are on maintaining his lead, which ballooned after he and Goydos matched each other shot-for-shot through nine -- three birdies and five pars. A tense duel of accurate shot-making and crisp putting was going to come down to who faltered first.
It turned out to be Goydos, who missed an 8-foot birdie putt on No. 10. Stricker then birdied four of the next five holes, including a 31-footer on No. 12, to distance himself.
"I got steamrolled," Goydos said.
Stricker drilled a 23-footer on 15 to go 24 under, but his approaches to the greens were so accurate that his seven other birdie putts all came from inside 10 feet. That included an easy 15-incher on No. 11 after he stuck an 8-iron from 170 yards.
"I've been putting the ball really well and I just try to get it on there in a good spot so I have a birdie putt," Stricker said. "And I've given myself a lot of opportunities."
Stricker didn't get into any trouble until the last two holes.
He drove into the rough on the par-5 17th, then hit his second shot into a greenside bunker.
Stymied?
Hardly. He blasted out to 4 feet and birdied the hole.
On 18, Stricker drove into a stand of trees and punched out into the fairway, his ball landing in a divot, 100 yards from the pin. He had left the course with a sour feeling Friday after a missing a 2-foot par putt on 18 and was staring at another disappointing finish.
But his wedge stopped 7 inches short of the hole and he closed out his round with a tap-in for par.
"You never want to end with a bogey," he said. "After I hit my poor drive, I played the hole smart. I just wanted to give myself 10 feet or under and get a putt at it. It was a good way to finish."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
OAKMONT, Pa. -- Paula Creamer wondered a few months ago if she would ever play golf again the way her badly injured left thumb was hurting.
What she couldn't have possibly guessed is she would play like this.
Creamer shed the title of being the best women's golfer to not win a major, never wavering during a four-shot victory Sunday at the U.S. Women's Open in which she steadily put away a field that couldn't match her confidence or consistency.
Creamer started with a three-stroke lead, then never let it go below two shots during a 2-under 69 that gave her a 3-under 281 for the tournament. Na Yeon Choi of South Korea shot a 5-under 66 at a softened-up Oakmont Country Club to tie Suzann Pettersen of Norway for second place at 1-over 285.
"That question always lurked: `How come you never won a major?' " said Creamer, whose thumb remained heavily bandaged during her post-tournament news conference. "Now we never have to get asked that question again. It's kind of a big relief off my shoulders."
Most of all, a big relief off a hyperextended left thumb she estimates is only 60 percent healed.
Limited to 40 practice shots before each round to lessen the pounding on a thumb that was surgically repaired in March, Creamer found the best possible way to limit the discomfort: take as few strokes as possible.
The 23-year-old Creamer, known as the Pink Panther for her all-pink attire, faded badly in the late rounds of the last two Women's Opens, and she missed the cut at last week's Jamie Farr Classic won by Choi. But she was as strong at Oakmont as her thumb is weak, with earlier rounds of 72, 70 and 70.
She had to be; after all, she punished that thumb by playing 52 holes during the final two days, 23 on Sunday, because of Friday's heavy rain that slowed down some of the fastest, trickiest greens in golf and created better scores.
"I was in pain, but I was trying to do everything to not think about it," Creamer said. "It shows you how much the mental side of golf can really take over."
With Creamer's lead briefly down to two strokes, her two biggest confidence-building shots of the day might have been long, par-saving putts on Nos. 7 and 8 -- even as Choi was charging with the tournament's second-best round. Song-Hee Kim had a 65 on Sunday and finished 13th.
Creamer, from Pleasanton, Calif., had four birdies and two bogeys, all but wrapping it up by hitting to within 10 feet out of the thick rough on the par-4 14th and dropping the putt for birdie. Only she didn't know for sure; she never looked at a leaderboard until the 18th.
She hit another exceptional mid-iron to 4 feet on the 442-yard 15th and made that, too.
Right about then, she sensed a major was finally hers. Two weeks after Cristie Kerr won the LPGA Championship by 12 shots with domination, Creamer won with determination.
"Without a doubt, I've matured over the last couple of months," said Creamer, so bored during her layoff she attended the Masters as a spectator. "It was hard. I've prepared for this for the last three months and it makes everything so much better. ... It [the adversity] made me more of an adult."
Creamer played only her fourth tournament since that operation required mechanical changes in her game because her right side is much stronger than her left. Forced to play 29 holes Saturday, she feared unwrapping her throbbing thumb because "it might explode."
Her game certainly didn't. Even if she worried in February that the thumb injury that initially occurred last year and worsened during a Thailand tournament might prevent her from regaining the form that allowed her to win eight times as an LPGA golfer by age 21.
"I thought, `Gosh, I might never play again,' " she said.
Don't think she wanted this tournament, this title? She first studied DVDs of Oakmont Country Club a year ago, watching the 2007 U.S. Open won by Angel Cabrera. A valuable lesson it was, as Sunday's pin placements were exactly the same as three years ago.
"Even when I had a cast on my hand, I was thinking, `Oakmont, Oakmont, Oakmont,' " she said.
Creamer stayed poised as most of the contenders around her kept tumbling, a reversal from her most recent U.S. Women's Opens.
Brittany Lang, the first-round leader with a 69, climbed to within two shots before bogeys on the 15th and 16th dropped her six back at 287. Lang, Yang and former world No. 1 Jiyai Shin tied for fifth at 286, one behind In Kyung Kim of South Korea.
Kerr, the world's top-ranked player, tried to charge with consecutive birdies on Nos. 2 and 3, but fell back with four bogeys in the next six holes. She tied for 17th.
"I played terrible, and Paula played great," Kerr said.
Alexis Thompson, the 15-year-old Floridian who is the successor to Michelle Wie as the next potential big star in women's golf, tied for 10th in her fourth Women's Open despite some faulty putting.
"She's the best 15-year-old I ever saw," Pettersen said.
Choi, seven back before the final round began, couldn't pull off the biggest comeback in tournament history. No golfer has rallied from more than five down in the final round.
"I didn't think about trying to win, I tried to focus on my game," Choi said. "I hit my shots with 100 percent confidence."
Creamer is the 12th first-time winner among the last 15 majors. Until Kerr won the LPGA and Creamer won the Women's Open, the United States had won only eight of the previous 39 majors. All nine of Creamer's LPGA victories came as she led going into the final round.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SOUTHPORT, England -- Yani Tseng of Taiwan made a 6-foot putt on the 18th hole Sunday to win the Women's British Open by one stroke over Katherine Hull of Australia.
It was the 21-year-old Tseng's third major title and second of the year to go along with the Kraft Nabisco. She has four LPGA victories overall, having won 2008 LPGA Championship and 2009 Corning Classic.
Hull came into the round trailing by four strokes but trailed by just one heading into the 18th. But she missed a 20-foot birdie attempt and had to settle for a 70, and Tseng made her par putt to shoot 73 and total 11-under 277 at Royal Birkdale.
Tseng earned $408,000.
She drove into a bunker on the last hole and was just off the green in three. Hull chipped poorly before her birdie attempt went past the hole, and Tseng coolly stepped up to make the winning putt.
"I was nervous and tired with all the pressure and attention out there today," Tseng said. "Katherine played really well and put me under a lot of pressure. It was the toughest win I've had to date. I usually come from behind to win. I've never won from the front before."
Tseng said Annika Sorenstam sent her a message overnight.
"She said, 'I'm very happy to see you on top, that's where you belong,' and wished me good luck for today," she said.
On the first three holes, Hull had trimmed three strokes off Tseng's lead -- with birdies at the second and third -- while Tseng dropped a stroke at the third. Hull hit a 5-wood to 12 feet at the second and made it, then an 8-iron to 40 feet at the fourth and holed that as well.
Hull's putt for birdie at the 17th lipped out.
"I'll probably be working on my short game after that finish," Hull said with a smile. "I couldn't believe when that putt on 17 stayed out, but, never mind, I did the best I could. I felt pretty good coming into the week, so there are lots of positives I can take from my performance."
Koreans Na Yeon Choi and In kyung Kim shared third at 7-under 281. American Cristie Kerr was tied for fifth at 6 under with two other Koreans, Heekyung Seo and Amy Yangon.
Sweden's Caroline Hedwall won the Smyth Salver, awarded to the leading amateur for her 3-over 291.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LEMONT, Ill. -- Tiger Woods' FedEx Cup season ended Sunday with little fanfare, save for the drama that accompanies a round with Phil Mickelson.
The final round of the BMW Championship saw Tiger and Lefty paired together. Mickelson got the best of Woods, shooting a 4-under 67 to Woods' 1-under 70, at Cog Hill.
It was the first time the top two players in the world played in the same group this year. They had not played together since last November in China at the HSBC Champions, a tournament Mickelson won.
The last time they were paired together in the United States was at the 2009 Masters, where they played a riveting duel but finished behind tournament champion Angel Cabrera.
Sunday's pairing had little of that aura. Both players were seemingly out of contention and it was clear early that Woods would not be able to muster a low enough round to advance to the Tour Championship, where the top 30 in the FedEx Cup standings will play at East Lake in Atlanta starting Sept. 23.
"Obviously I would rather be there,'' Woods said after his tie for 15th in the tournament left him 42nd in FedEx Cup points. "I've played better than I have all this year. But it is what it is. I didn't qualify, and since I'm at home it also gives me two weeks to practice and prepare.''
Woods' reference was to the Ryder Cup, which begins Oct. 1 in Wales. Two of his U.S. teammates -- at-large picks Rickie Fowler and Stewart Cink -- also failed to advance to Atlanta.
The other nine members of the team will be at East Lake, led by Matt Kuchar, who is first in FedEx Cup points. Dustin Johnson, Steve Stricker, Mickelson, Jim Furyk, Hunter Mahan, Bubba Watson, Zach Johnson and Jeff Overton are all eligible for the FedEx Cup finale.
Despite a final-round 77, Bo Van Pelt snagged the final spot in the Tour Championshp, edging Bill Haas. Fowler, who shot a 73, was 32nd in points. Charlie Wi, who was in contention Sunday before a final-round 74, tied for eighth and dropped out of the top 30 to 33rd.
The only European Ryder Cup team member to advance was Luke Donald, as Rory McIlroy finished 36th and Ian Poulter, with a final-round 75, ended up 39th. A couple of Europeans who were not picked by captain Colin Montgomerie, Paul Casey and Justin Rose, also made the 30-man field in Atlanta, where Mickelson will defend his title.
Mickelson, who struggled to score during the first three rounds of the tournament and was among several players who criticized the redesign of the Cog Hill course, saved his best for last.
It didn't hurt that he was paired with Woods. They have now been grouped together 26 times in PGA Tour-sanctioned events, and Mickelson evened up their head-to-head record at 11-11-4.
Mickelson has now gone 6-1-1 in their past eight meetings and Woods has not fared better since the second round of the 2008 U.S. Open.
"I enjoy it,'' said Mickelson, who tied for eighth at the BMW. "He certainly brings the best out in me. That wasn't the case earlier on. But I feel like he gets the best out of me now.''
There wasn't a whole lot of banter between the two, but Mickelson said they did briefly discuss the Ryder Cup and how "we're both looking forward to going over there.''
And despite Woods being 3-over par through 8 holes  -- he was 4 over for the last 10 --  Mickelson does not believe Woods' game is far off.
"I think his game is inches from being there,'' Mickelson said. "His speed is back. He's solid, very close. He's hitting shots. He didn't pull off a few today, but he hit a lot of good shots there coming in.
"He made a couple of bogeys and followed up with a number of birdies there toward the end. But you can tell that his game is like inches from turning because his speed is back and his putter looks great. I mean, his game is not that far off at all. It looks very close to being right there.''
This will be the first time since turning pro at the end of 1996 that Woods will miss a tournament because he was not eligible. But it is the third time in the last five years that he will not be at the Tour Championship.
Woods skipped it in 2006, then won the FedEx Cup in 2007 and 2009. He missed the Tour Championship in 2008 due to injury.
And unless he is able to win the HSBC Champions in China, he will go an entire year not winning a PGA Tour-sanctioned event for the first time in his pro career.
As is his custom, Woods chose to look at the positives of the situation. He will use the next two weeks to work on his game, the first extended time he will have at home since starting work with instructor Sean Foley at the PGA Championship.
"I can practice at home with Sean in peace and away from everybody and put some work in and also work on my short game and my putting, things I have not been able to do out here,'' he said "It'll be nice to work on all these little things and concentrate on my game a little bit more and sharpen up, be ready come Friday [of the Ryder Cup]."
Bog Harig is a golf writer for ESPN.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MIDLAND, Texas --  Nate Smith won the WNB Golf Classic for his first Nationwide Tour title, shooting a 6-under 66 on Sunday for a two-stroke victory over Alistair Presnell, Fabian Gomez and Brandt Jobe.
Smith, the 27-year-old former Duke player in his first season on the tour, finished at 18 under on the Midland Country Club course. He earned $94,500 to jump from 78th to 25th on the money list with $153,054. The top 25 after the final five events will earn 2011 PGA Tour cards.
"I don't know whether to cry or just scream. I'm just flooded with emotion right now," Smith said. "The first thing that comes to mind is all of the hard work and everything I've done to get to this point."
He made a 35-foot birdie putt on 18.
"To be able to come through in the clutch like that is the best feeling in the world," Smith said. "To have a putt on the 18th hole to win was just an amazing feeling and to make it was awesome."
Presnell closed with a 65, Gomez shot a 66, and Jobe had a 68.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MADISON, Miss. --  Bill Haas had to overcome some nerves and five bogeys in the final round to win the Viking Classic by three strokes on Sunday.
He opened the round with a bogey on the first hole and had four on the back nine, including the par-5 18th. Haas, who never trailed in the tournament, also scattered five birdies to finish at 15-under 273 for his second victory of the year.
"I had to handle my nerves since the first hole," Haas said. "But it's just not easy."
The $648,000 winner's purse jumped Haas to No. 26 on the money list and earned him a spot in the Masters and the U.S. Open. His second victory of the year extended his exemption through 2013.
"Just job security is pretty cool," Haas said. "I've been to Q School twice, played in the Nationwide Tour, and I know how good the guys are on the Nationwide Tour. If you get pushed back there, then it's not easy to get back out here."
Haas, who also won the Bob Hope Classic, is one of seven multiple winners this year.
Michael Allen came as close to being a threat as anyone. Allen had three birdies to put him at 14 under on No. 12, tying him with Haas, who bogeyed the hole. But Allen drove out of bounds on the next hole and ended up with a double-bogey. He had a 71 and finished at 12 under. Allen, 51, who turned professional in 1984, has now played in 357 PGA tournaments without a victory.
"I was hanging in there all day, especially the front nine," Allen said. "I couldn't get much going even though I had a lot of opportunities, I thought. Finally, it looked like he was starting to get a little nervous or play a few straight shots, and I was kind of gaining on him."
Allen said he had a good drive on No. 13, but the ball took a bad bounce and landed 30 yards out of bounds.
"I told him, when we got done ... 'You didn't miss a shot on the back nine,'" Haas said. "I didn't know what else to say. He played beautifully. Fortunately for me and unfortunately for him, you know, it just worked out in my favor. He really did play well."
The second-place finish paid Allen $388,800, boosting his earnings this year to $716,031 and jumping him from 166 on the money list to 117.
D.J. Trahan (69) and Brendon de Jonge (72) tied for third at 277, and three players -- Graham DeLaet, Jonathan Byrd and Chris Stroud -- finished another shot back.
Stroud's 278 earned him $131,400. Stroud had been at 125 on the money list going into the tournament. The victory moved him to 111.
The top 125 on the money list after the Children's Miracle Network Classic, the final tournament of the year, retain their PGA cards for next season.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SAN MARTIN, Calif. -- The familiar chants of "Rocco! Rocco!" never sounded better or louder as he approached the 18th hole.
Rocco Mediate holed out for eagle for the fourth straight day, hitting a pitching wedge approach from 116 yards that spun back into the cup on the par-4 17th hole Sunday en route to a one-stroke victory over Bo Van Pelt and rookie Alex Prugh in the Frys.com Open.
"Do you believe what just happened out there?" Mediate said. "I have a job again."
The 47-year-old Mediate won his sixth PGA Tour title and first since 2002, finishing with a 2-over 73 for a 15-under 269 total at CordeValle. He earned $900,000 and a two-year tour exemption.
Mediate had a hole-in-one on the par-3 third hole Thursday, holed out from 160 yards Friday on the par-4 fourth, and holed out from 111 yards Saturday on the par-5 15th hole.
Prugh shot a 69, and Van Pelt closed with a 71.
U.S. Ryder Cup player Rickie Fowler birdied three of his final five holes for a 69 to finish fourth at 13 under. Chris Tidland (67) was fifth at 12 under in the Fall Series event.
"I was walking down the stairs and I heard the roar," Fowler said. "I couldn't see the green but I could tell who the roar was for. It was pretty loud."
Prugh and Van Pelt each birdied the final hole, giving Mediate exactly what he wanted on his final shot -- a 4- or 5-foot putt that mattered.
As Mediate and caddie Matthew Achatz looked at the shot, they both saw it the same way.
"He said, 'It's dead straight, knock it in," Mediate said. "I nodded and said, 'OK."
Mediate said he never saw the ball go into the hole. He turned, flipped his putter and embraced Achatz before shaking hands with Prugh and Van Pelt.
"I don't know how to explain it," Mediate said. "Over the past three weeks everything was coming along and I was putting better. Last week I was pretty solid all four rounds and this week went bonkers."
Mediate built his lead through three days of warmth and sunshine, allowing his cranky back to stay loose. That all changed Sunday with a steady rain and cold through most of the day as he shot a 5 over through 13 holes, and lost the lead temporarily on the 15th hole.
"The weather was tough on everybody," he said. "I don't do well with the cool and damp stuff. It was hard for me to move. My back wasn't sore but it was stiff. I couldn't hit it where I was looking."
The sun poked through as he began play on the 14th hole and his fortunes turned.
"I told Matthew at 12 I was not going to miss any more fairways," Mediate said. "I made a big putt on 14 just to stay alive."
Mediate made an 18½-foot birdie putt on the par-3 16th, then regained the lead on the 17th.
Prugh, who had his first top-10 finish since opening the season with top 10s in three of his first four events, came within 2 feet of a hole-in-one on the 17th.
"I had Alex mark his ball because you just never know," Mediate said. "I was going for it, thinking I wanted a birdie. Then I made a shot Mr. [Lee] Trevino taught me."
That's when fans began chanting as they followed him to the 18th tee.
"I had signed up for tour school," Mediate said. "That's where I belonged until a half-hour ago."
Mediate plans to play in Las Vegas and at Disney "and then I'm going to rest."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LAS VEGAS --  Jonathan Byrd figured there was barely enough light left to play one more hole.
Turns out he only needed one more swing.
In a swift and shocking finish Sunday in Las Vegas, Byrd made a hole-in-one with a 6-iron on the fourth extra hole to win a three-man playoff in the Justin Timberlake Shriners Hospital Open. The PGA Tour said it was the first sudden-death playoff decided by an ace.
"It's kind of hard to process because I'm still kind of in shock," Byrd said.
So was everyone else who saw another Fall Series thriller.
Moments earlier, it looked as though the tournament might not finish until Monday -- without Byrd.
Byrd's approach on the 18th tumbled over the green and was one hop away from going into the water when it settled into a clump of grass. He chipped up to 7 feet and saved par to stay in the playoff.
Then came the decision.
Byrd, defending champion Martin Laird and Cameron Percy -- they each made par on the three playoff holes -- discussed whether there was enough light to continue. They agreed to go one more hole -- the 204-yard 17th at the TPC Summerlin -- with the understanding any of them could stop if they couldn't read their putts on the green.
That wasn't necessary.
Byrd had the honors and hit a slight draw toward the flag. That's about all he saw. The ball landed about 10 feet short of the hole and rolled in like a putt. It was too dark for Byrd to see the ball disappear into the cup, and even the cheers from a smattering of fans around the green were not immediately convincing.
"Did that go in?" Byrd asked his caddie.
"It started perfect, it turned perfect and it was coming right down the flag," Byrd said. "I thought I hit it too good. I thought I hit it too far. And I couldn't see anything. But to hear the reaction as it went in, I was just in shock."
Byrd said he tried to control his emotion because Laird and Percy, a tour rookie from Australia, still had to tee off.
"It's pretty hard to follow that," Byrd said.
Both hit into the water, and Byrd had his fourth PGA Tour victory, this one unlike any other.
Players have made an eagle with a full swing on the final hole to win tournaments. Among the more memorable were Isao Aoki in the Hawaiian Open in 1983, Robert Gamez at Bay Hill in 1990 and Craig Parry to win a playoff on the 18th hole at Doral in 2004.
Paul Casey had a walkoff ace to win a foursomes match at the Ryder Cup in Ireland, and Peter Hanson made a hole-in-one in a playoff at Walton Heath to earn a spot in the 2009 U.S. Open.
But a hole-in-one with a PGA Tour title on the line? That was a first.
"You're never prepared for a hole-in-one," Laird said.
It was the second straight week of high drama at a time of the year when players are simply grinding to keep their PGA Tour cards. Just last week at the Frys.com Open at CordeValle, Rocco Mediate holed out a wedge for eagle on the 17th hole of the final round, right after Alex Prugh came within inches of a holing out from the tee box with a driver.
This one was even more incredible, and it came at just the right time. Byrd was No. 117 on the money list going into Las Vegas, and this gives him a two-year exemption.
Byrd closed with a 68, and he had to watch four times -- once in regulation, three times in a playoff -- as Laird stood over a birdie putt with a chance to win. That sequence started in regulation, when Laird had a 30-foot birdie try. Laird, the defending champion, shot 69.
Percy, the Australian rookie who needed to win to keep his job on the PGA Tour, earlier holed a 15-foot birdie putt on the last hole for a 67 that allowed him to get into the playoff. They finished at 21-under 263.
Byrd thought he had a chance on the second playoff hole -- also the 17th -- when his 25-foot birdie putt spun 180 degrees out of the cup. Getting back to the 17th took almost as big of a break as his hole-in-one.
He was stunned to see his ball go down the side of the green toward the water, figuring his playoff was over.
"When I saw it go down the hill and I heard people going, 'Aww-w-w,' I thought it was in the water, and I thought I was going to be done," he said. "And then right at the last second, I kind of heard somebody cheer. And they don't cheer when it goes in the water."
The cheering was even sweeter on the next hole.
Byrd won $774,000 for his first win since the 2007 John Deere Classic.
Percy won $378,400, but he needed a victory to keep his card. He at least moved up to No. 144 on the money list, which at least will spare him going to the second stage of Q-school depending on how he fares in his last tournament.
Webb Simpson was at 22 under and had a one-shot lead until he pulled his tee shot into the water on the 17th and made double bogey. He finished with a 68 and wound up one shot out of the playoff, along with Spencer Levin, who had a 66.
Nick Watney, who lives in Las Vegas and was playing his final tournament before his wedding, had a 66 and tied for sixth with Cameron Beckman, who had a 67.
For those trying to finish in the top 125 on the money list to keep their tour cards, they now must wait two weeks before the final official tournament of the year at Disney.
It will have a hard time topping the last two weeks.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CHARLESTON, S.C. --  Brendan Steele won the Nationwide Tour Championship, beating Colt Knost on the fourth hole of a playoff Sunday. But both players left feeling like champions as they finished among the top 25 money winners to earn PGA Tour cards.
Steele began the season-ending event 30th and Knost, the 2007 U.S. Amateur champion, was 36th. Steele knocked in an 8-foot birdie on the fourth extra hole, ending a day filled with drama, nerves and regrets.
Steele finished sixth on the final money list and Knost 15th, both among the 14 first-timers out on tour next season.
Steele held a five-shot lead after three rounds at the Daniel Island Club's Ralston Creek course.
"I didn't sleep very well," he said. "Couple of hours here and there. It's almost a little bit harder when you've got that big lead because you can't help but try and protect it a little bit."
Jamie Lovemark, a 22-year-old tour rookie, maintained his No. 1 position on the money list to earn a full PGA Tour exemption and entry into The Players Championship.
Lovemark finished with $452,951 and expects to carry that success to the bigger stage.
"I'll be looking forward to the Sony" Open, the season's first event, Lovemark said. "I want to win out there next year so I don't expect much less of myself."
Justin Hicks edged Scott Gardiner by $2,010 for the 25th and final PGA Tour spot.
Hicks entered the last round tied for 16th and seemingly secure for a PGA Tour card. However, he bogeyed five of his last eight holes for a closing 76, then waited nearly two hours to see if he'd get shuffled out.
"There's nothing fun about that round. I wouldn't wish that round on my worst enemy," Hicks said.
For every player that got in, someone was knocked out.
James Hahn, a 28-year-old tour rookie, lost a PGA Tour chance a year ago when needing just a par, he took double bogey when he four-putted the 108th and last hole at Q-school to miss by a stroke. Hahn appeared to put that behind him, starting the final round tied for second and projected to finish 15th in the money.
Instead, he shot a 77 to fall to 29th overall. Hahn's collapse meant Hicks held his spot at No. 25.
"Hopefully, a year from now, if I'm in the same exact position, I would succeed," Hahn said.
Hicks consoled Hahn near the scorer's tent and offered encouragement that his time was close.
For Hicks, he can't wait for the chance to challenge himself against the game's best in 2011. "It tastes pretty sweet right now," Hicks said. "But there were knots in my stomach probably 30 minutes ago."
The Nationwide Tour's final round is typically one where dreams are realized or dashed. Matt Every began the 2009 event 49th on the list, yet took the title here at the Daniel Island Club's Ralston Creek course to advance to the PGA Tour.
There were hugs of joy and regret near the clubhouse as friends who've played alongside each other since January's opening event in New Zealand celebrated promotions or hunkered down for more work ahead.
"There was a lot of tension going down to the end," Gardiner said. "I've done the best that I could. I'm happy."
Positions 26th through 40th are exempted into the final stage of the PGA Tour Qualifying Tournament in December. Even Hicks, excited about his PGA Tour card, might take part to improve his status.
PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem was on hand to award the 25 new members cards. "It's so exciting to see them get ready for next year," Finchem said.
Joe Affrunti began the week 34th on the money list and moved himself into a tie for fourth entering the final round. The 29-year-old tour rookie from Chicago saw his PGA Tour chances fading with a tee-shot into the water on the 16th hole.
But Affrunti saved bogey and kept his spot at No. 22 with a closing birdie.
"It's awesome, are you kidding me?" Affrunti said. "You play for more money. You go to cooler places. What more could you ask for?"
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
GUADALAJARA, Mexico -- South Korea's In-Kyung Kim won the Lorena Ochoa Invitational on Sunday for her third LPGA Tour title, closing with an 8-under 64 for a three-stroke victory over Suzann Pettersen.
Kim played the front nine in 6-under 30 and added three birdies and a bogey on the final nine.
"I don't know how to really take this all in," Kim said. "But it's been a great week. I mean, on the golf course, I played very good golf all week. The putts pretty much kept dropping today.
"Yesterday, it was missing this way and that way, and today, it started going in, the next started going in, and another one, and I'm like, 'Wow.'"
She had a tournament-record 19-under total on the Guadalajara Country Club course and earned $220,000, which she said she's donating to charity -- half to the Lorena Ochoa Foundation and half to an American organization to be determined.
"Before I came to the U.S., I wanted to come to the U.S., but I know it's tough and my parents are working really hard at the time when I was 16," Kim said. "And we weren't really rich, but it takes a lot of money to send me to the U.S. and go to school and all that. But there is one person who helped my parents, and if he didn't help my parents, or if he didn't help me coming to the U.S., I wouldn't really be here. Everyone needs help. I think that's why I'm all about that."
Pettersen shot a 68. The Norwegian star has six second-place finishes and 11 top-five finishes in 18 starts this season. She's winless since the 2009 Canadian Women's Open.
"Another second-place finish. It sucks," she said.
Pettersen had a double bogey on the fourth hole.
"Hit one bad shot and that cost me two shots," she said. "And she made a birdie on the last. It kind of it felt like I gave her a gap. But other than that, I'm making some great putts coming down the stretch.
Karine Icher finished third at 15 under, holing out from the fairway on No, 18 for a 68.
Cristie Kerr (66) and U.S. Women's Open champion Paula Creamer (68) tied for fourth at 14 under, and Ai Miyazato (70) finished at 13 under.
Ochoa, playing her first LPGA Tour event since retiring in April, shot a 74 on her home course, leaving her 19 strokes back in a tie for 25th.
"For sure I wanted to play better, but I think it was important for the week for me to try to enjoy it as much as I could, and that's what I did," Ochoa said. "It was the first time to have my husband on the course, and I think we both had a good time. And I want to say `Thank you,' to the players for being here and making this tournament so special."
Husband Andres Conesa, the CEO of Aeromexico, caddied for Ochoa.
"It was a great experience, something that you don't change," he said. "Obviously, she would like to have a better round today, but she leaves very happy and it was a great experience for both of us."
Kim praised Ochoa after the victory.
"She's just down to earth," Kim said. "She is always there. She is not just a great golfer. She has great warm heart. So that's why she's my idol. I don't have many idols. I want you to know that."
Kim also won the 2008 Longs Drugs Challenge and 2009 LPGA State Farm Classic.
The tour is off the next two weeks. The season-ending LPGA Tour Championship is Dec. 2-5 at Grand Cypress in Orlando, Fla.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
TOKYO --  A Japanese court has handed down a suspended sentence to Australian golfer Wayne Perske for possessing and using cocaine.
Masaaki Ono, an official at the Chiba District Court, said the 36-year-old golfer received a year and six months in prison, suspended for three years.
Perske was arrested in October after inhaling cocaine at a bar in Chiba, east of Tokyo, and carrying some 1.25 grams of cocaine in his pocket. A customer at the bar alerted police, leading officers to search and arrest him.
Japan has strict anti-drug laws. Possession of banned drugs can carry a penalty of up to seven years imprisonment.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. --  The LPGA Tour will play 13 times in the United States as part of a 25-tournament schedule it released Thursday, including a new event in Arizona where the players will forgo paychecks to recognize the LPGA founders.
The LPGA plays more times in Mexico (twice) than Florida (once), and its 12 trips outside the country include seven tournaments in Asia. The season begins Feb. 17 with the Honda LPGA Thailand, and concludes Nov. 20 by resurrecting the Titleholders name in Orlando, Fla.
One new event offers a unique twist.
To honor its founding members, the first domestic tournament March 18-20 at Wildfire Golf Club at JW Marriott Phoenix will be called the LPGA Founders Cup. Instead of getting paid, the prize money will go to the LPGA Foundation that runs the LPGA-USGA Girls Golf program. The money and other points the players would have earned will still be applied to the money list, world ranking and award races.
"The heart and soul of the LPGA is embodied by its gifted and engaged players, who to this day still embrace the same primary responsibility established by the LPGA's founders -- to leave the tour better than how they found it," commissioner Michael Whan said.
The tournament will have a title sponsor -- RR Donnelley, which has a marketing partnership with the tour.
The Titleholders once was considered a major championship. It first was played at Augusta Country Club, and the winner was awarded a green jacket. It last was held in 1999 at LPGA International at the tour's headquarters, won by Karrie Webb.
It will conclude the season at Grand Cypress in Orlando, where the LPGA Tour Championship was played last year. Instead of 120 players, however, the 75-player field will be for the top three finishers (not already eligible) at each of the 25 tournaments.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii --  Jonathan Byrd and Carl Pettersson didn't miss a beat in the PGA Tour opener Thursday, both enjoying the views and surprisingly calm conditions in the Tournament of Champions to share the lead at 7-under 66.
That wasn't the case for others.
Kapalua was missing its two-time defending champion when Geoff Ogilvy had to withdraw with 12 stitches in his right finger, making him the first defending champ in 50 years to miss the winners-only event.
Stuart Appleby was missing his putter. It wasn't in the bag when he showed up Thursday morning, and he sent caddie Scott Sajtinac to a nearby golf shop to get the closest he could find. With the price tag still glued to the shaft, Appleby opened with a 69.
Jim Furyk was missing a playing partner when Ogilvy withdrew, so he brought along Scott Carroll as a marker. The popular head pro at Kapalua got the loudest ovation of anyone on the first tee.
Above all, the Plantation Course was missing its notorious wind, which allowed for a gentle start to the PGA Tour season.
"It's quite an adjustment going out there with no wind," Byrd said.
It was Byrd's first tournament since he qualified for the Tournament of Champions by winning in Las Vegas with the best finish of the year, a hole-in-one in a three-man playoff. After making five birdies on the front nine, Byrd holed out another shot. This was only a wedge from 111 yards that caught the grain perfectly and rolled sideways about 4 feet and into the cup.
If the only the rest of the day could have gone as well.
"From there on, got a little shaky," Byrd said. "I didn't play great for about a three- or four-hole stretch."
Ben Crane was a stroke behind the leaders. He played bogey-free in the calm, overcast conditions with the sun trying to break through the clouds but never quite succeeding.
Furyk, one of only three players to have won at Kapalua still in the field, also got off to a quick start before he stalled and had to settle for a 5-under 68, leaving him tied with Bill Haas and Charley Hoffman.
Joining Appleby in the group at 69 was Anthony Kim, determined to plot his way through each round at each tournament, and doing a pretty good job of it except for the par-3 eighth. He chose a 4-iron, then changed his shot at the top of his swing and pulled it into the high weeds to take a double bogey.
"All of a sudden, I decided to try to make birdie -- from 215 yards away," Kim said. "Mental error. I committed to every shot I hit today except for that one."
Bubba Watson hit the longest tee shot on the 18th during a long drive competition Wednesday, and his driver again was the key club on the finishing hole Thursday -- only this one was a driver off the fairway, setting up a 10-foot eagle putt for a 70.
The conditions were so serene that a dozen players shot in the 60s, and only two players failed to break par. One of them was Rocco Mediate, who made the turn in 41 and shot 79. The other was Justin Rose at 75.
Ernie Els, who set the tournament record in 2003 with a 31-under 261, opened with back-to-back bogeys and rallied to get back into the game until a three-putt bogey on the final hole for a 1-under 72.
Pettersson qualified by winning the Canadian Open, but he wasn't satisfied with the way his year ended. Instead of shutting it down when he returned from the HSBC Champions in China, he went to work. Pettersson spent the last two months playing golf just about every day, whether that meant practicing for one hour or five hours, playing with buddies in North Carolina or taking golf trips to Florida.
"Probably worked harder on my game this offseason than I've done any other offseason," he said.
The course can play a little longer without wind. Pettersson usually hits a 6-iron into the 554-yard 17th hole, which is downhill with the trade wind typical helping. He had to hammer a hybrid Thursday, an example of how different Kapalua felt.
Even so, no men were begging for the wind to return.
"I've been here since Sunday, and every day it has blown a little bit different direction, which messes with you a little bit," Haas said. "But I'm happy. I hope it stays like this all week."
Appleby is going to stick with his new putter.
He's not sure what happened to the old one, but his instructions to Sajtinac were simple.
"I told him to get me an Odyssey putter," Appleby said, the brand he normally uses. "If you get me an Odyssey putter, I'll know what to do with it."
So what happens if he finds his old putter after opening with a 69?
"That's how you really torment a golfer," Appleby said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii --  Robert Garrigus, the biggest hitter on the PGA Tour, is leading the Tournament of Champions thanks to one of the shortest clubs in his bag.
Garrigus holed out a wedge for eagle on the 16th hole, then finished with two big drives to set up easy birdies for a 10-under 63 on Friday to take a one-shot lead at Kapalua going into the weekend of the season-opening tournament.
His wedge on the 16th landed some 15 feet beyond the hole and took the grain toward the Pacific Ocean to trickle into the cup. He was excited, sure, but that was overdue. On two other holes, his full wedge came with inches of going in.
That's no surprise. Garrigus, who has led the tour in driving distance each of the last two years, spent the bulk of his time after Thanksgiving working on his wedge game inside 100 yards. The work paid off quickly.
"My wedge game is exactly where I need it to be," he said.
He was at 14-under 132 and had a one-shot lead over Carl Pettersson, who birdied the last hole for a 67. Jonathan Byrd also made birdie on the finishing hole of the Plantation Course for a 68 and was another shot back.
Garrigus, who qualified for this winners-only event in the final PGA Tour event of the year at Disney, spent his honeymoon on Maui and couldn't wait to get back. This week is as relaxing as there is on tour, with only a 32-man field and no cut. It's the first time Garrigus has teed it up with a guarantee of making money.
"I told everybody, 'I'm not going to really be nervous unless I'm in the last group,'" Garrigus said. "Here we go."
It's the last few groups on the weekend that can put a little edge on this working vacation.
Ernie Els, who set the tournament record at Kapalua in 2003, got back into the mix with a 9-under 64. Steve Stricker didn't make a bogey in calm conditions and shot a 67. Francesco Molinari of Italy recovered from a bogey-bogey start with eight birdies for a 67. FedEx Cup champion Jim Furyk had another 68.
All of them were only four shots behind.
"Everybody is jammed up there," Stricker said. "If the weather stays like this, there's going to be low scores. You've got to keep going."
Also in the mix was Dustin Johnson, among seven players who had the lead at one point Friday. He ran off five straight birdies before trying to drive the 14th green, losing his ball into the native grass and taking double bogey.
"If I drive it straight, it definitely favors long hitters," Johnson said.
Garrigus can go toe-to-toe with anyone off the tee, and he showed that coming in. He ripped a 392-yard drive on the 17th, a big number considering the lack of a strong wind, and stuffed his approach to about 6 feet. And on the 684-yard closing hole, he had a 5-iron for his second shot after a 394-yard drive.
For all his length, it's hard to ignore the short aspects of his game.
He uses a 28-inch putter -- he once left one in Tiger Woods' locker to give to his daughter, Sam -- to help on the greens. But the key has been the wedge game.
Garrigus, who blew a three-shot lead on the 18th hole and lost in a playoff at Memphis last year, was talking to swing coach Jim Ahern a few days before Disney when he was asked why he hadn't performed better.
Garrigus told him his wedge game was awful, or words to that effect. Ahern suggested he work on his wedges. It was really simple.
"That week of Disney, I had eight shots inside 100 yards and never had it outside 3 feet -- and I made one," Garrigus said. "So it's hilarious to think that little amount of work I put in is paying dividends this big."
He didn't stop with Disney. He hit three bags of balls from inside 100 yards on the range after Thanksgiving, and he is growing more confident with each shot. Perhaps it's no coincidence that two-time defending Geoff Ogilvy attributed his wins at Kapalua primarily to his wedge game.
Ogilvy isn't back to defend because of 12 stitches in his finger. The tournament lost another player Friday when Camilo Villegas was disqualified because of a rules violation on Thursday that no one knew about until the first round was over. On his second chip that was coming back to his feet on the 15th, Villegas flicked away loose pieces of grass where the ball was headed.
It was a tough start to the year for the PGA Tour to lose two marquee players, although there are plenty to fill the void.
Els was disgusted after a three-putt bogey from 12 feet to end his first round. He put that behind him quickly, running off five birdies in a six-hole stretch, and hitting his best shot on the 15th with a 3-wood to the middle of the green that set up a two-putt birdie.
"I needed something like that to get me closer to the leaders," Els said. "At least it got me back in the pack."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KAPALUA, Hawaii --  One shot to start his round, and Robert Garrigus was reeling.
One shot at the end had him celebrating.
Garrigus recovered from a double bogey on the opening hole by making a 50-foot putt on the 18th that banged into the back of the cup, went about 3 inches airborne and plopped in for eagle. That gave him a share of the lead Saturday with Steve Stricker and Jonathan Byrd going into the final round at the Tournament of Champions.
"That was a hell of a way to end the round," Garrigus said after his 4-under 69.
It could be an ever better finish.
Stricker hit every approach inside 20 feet over his last 11 holes and ran off five straight birdies on the back nine, including a 4-iron from a dicey position in the bunker on the 12th. He wound up with an 8-under 65 and was the first player to finish at 18-under 201.
Then came Byrd, who has been around the lead all week. Steady as ever, he failed to birdie either of the par 5s on the back nine, but atoned for that by nearly holing a wedge on the 16th that set up a tap-in birdie. He shot a 67.
Garrigus appeared to be an afterthought after the start he had.
Saturday featured the notorious Kona wind that blows out of the opposite direction, making the Plantation Course at Kapalua play at its longest. Some players had to hit 3-wood on the par-4 opening hole. Garrigus, who has led the PGA Tour in driving distance the last two years, went with a 4-iron and chunked it into the native grass for double bogey.
Then he powered his shot through the wind on the par-3 second and made bogey, out of the lead and falling.
"I thought just getting back to under par for the day was going to be good for me," Garrigus said. "And when I started to get going, I wasn't missing any more shots. I was striking it well. That putt on 18 just kind of capped it off. And man, that was really nice."
Garrigus, who captured his first PGA Tour title by winning Disney in the final event of the season, has a chance to become the first player since Tiger Woods in 2000 to win the season opener after winning the last tournament of the previous year.
And with three Americans at the top, it at least improved the odds of ending a nine-year streak of foreign-born winners.
Matt Kuchar had the lead at one point by making seven birdies in a nine-hole stretch, but he played even par over the final six holes for a 66 and wound up four shots out of the lead. U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell shot a 68 as he continued to get used to mountain golf atop the Pacific Ocean. He was six shots behind, along with Bill Haas (69).
Stricker began making his move with a birdie on the ninth hole, but the 12th was his shot of the tournament.
"A do-or-die swing," he said.
He had a grass divot left of his ball in the bunker, which was no problem. There was a 2-inch piece of grass behind the ball, and he called for a rules official to ask if he could move it, deep down knowing that he couldn't. What he didn't realize, however, was Stricker could not touch the grass piece at any point in his swing.
From 178 yards into the wind, he hit 4-iron that he brought from the inside and picked the ball cleanly from the sand. It caught the left side of the green and settled 5 feet away.
"You hit a shot like that, you want to make the putt," he said. "That was the topper."
He kept right on going, making a super fast putt on the 13th, using his superb wedge game for easy birdie putts on the 14th and 15th, and ending with another good pitch to 3 feet on the 18th.
"I didn't think an 8-under round was out there," he said. "But as I got into a roll on the back side, I kept wanting more."
Garrigus appears to be having as much fun as anyone, even after his rough start. With that attitude, he could be dangerous in the final round because he has what it takes to win on this course -- enormous power and a strong wedge game.
That didn't mean much to him.
"I don't have an advantage over a guy who makes everything inside of 10 feet," Garrigus said. "Steve Stricker is one of the best putters in the world. Jonathan Byrd has proved to be one of the best short-game guys in the world, hits his short irons great. I have to go out there and play my game and take advantage of shots I can take advantage of.
"If I can do that, it's going to be a lot of fun."
Byrd didn't spend much time looking at the leaderboard. He plodded along Kapalua, taking in the views of big surf and showing little emotion after some of his birdies. He's long nearly as long as Garrigus, and doesn't care.
"I think we played well to get into the position we were today," Byrd said. "And we shot a good score. So I don't think there's anything about our style of play or anything like that."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HUA HIN, Thailand --  Europe dominated Sunday's singles matches to produce an unlikely comeback over Asia and defend its Royal Trophy title with a 9-7 victory at the Black Mountain Golf Club.
Asia needed 2½ points from the eight singles matches to clinch the win but the Europeans held them to just one, winning six of the eight matchups with the other two all square.
Asia had led 6-2 going into the final day after sweeping the fourball matches Saturday.
Peter Hanson of Sweden gave Europe a good start, fighting back from two down to win nine of the next 10 holes, beating Liang Wen-chong 7 and 6.
"It's been a good day for me," Hanson said. "Liang's early birdies really woke me up to play my best. It was always tough to play the first match. And I needed to win my point get some blue up here early to help the rest of the team."
Rhys Davies of Wales, Fredrik Andersson Hed of Sweden and European playing captain Colin Montgomerie also picked up wins and the series was tied at 6½ after Henrik Stenson of Sweden birdied the last hole to halve his match against Noh Seung-yul of South Korea.
Italian 17-year-old Matteo Manassero then put Europe in the lead for the first time by beating Shunsuke Sonoda of Japan 1 up, but it still looked like Jeev Milkha Singh of India and Thongchai Jaidee of Thailand might rescue the situation for Asia.
Singh was all square with Pablo Martin of Spain after 17 holes, while Thongchai was one up over Johan Edfors of Sweden going to the 18th.
But a superb approach shot from Martin landed only 18 inches from the pin on the 18th green, and after Singh missed his birdie putt, the Spaniard made an easy tap-in to clinch the victory for Europe. Edfors then won the last hole to halve his match with Thongchai.
"With the score we had by Saturday, I ... didn't expect to lose," Asia captain Joe Ozaki said. "But I realized the difficulty of match play. It could change very fast."
Davies was making his debut for Europe and said he can't wait for another opportunity.
"I love team golf," he said. "I played quite a bit as an amateur, [but] this is my first experience as a professional and I thoroughly enjoyed it, just really pushing hard for our team."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
JOHANNESBURG -- Floris de Vries, Martin Maritz and Neil Schietekat will make their British Open debuts after finishing in the top three at the final international qualifying tournament in South Africa.
De Vries shot 3-under 68 on Thursday to finish 10 under for the 36-hole event at the par-71 east course at Royal Johannesburg and Kensington Golf Club.
The 21-year-old Dutchman was four shots ahead of the South African duo of Maritz and Schietekat.
This year's British Open will be held July 14-17 at Royal St. George's in Sandwich.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SAN DIEGO --  Bubba Watson tempered his celebration when he rolled in a 12-foot birdie putt on the final hole Sunday at Torrey Pines, knowing Phil Mickelson could still make eagle on the par-5 closing hole to catch him.
It played out just as Watson imagined, right down to Mickelson's caddie tending the pin on the eagle attempt.
There was just one twist -- Mickelson wasn't anywhere near the green.
In a surprising decision that gave way to brief drama, Mickelson laid up on the 18th hole and had to settle for a birdie when his lob wedge from 72 yards away stopped 4 feet short of the hole.
The winner of the Farmers Insurance Open turned out to be Watson, who made clutch putts on the final two holes for a 5-under 67 and was sitting in the scoring trailer at the end, oblivious to how the final hole played out.
"I don't know how close he hit it. I don't know what he made on the hole," Watson said. "I just know that I won, because that's all I was worried about. If he makes it, I'm getting ready for a playoff. So I'm trying not to get too emotional. I realize it's Phil Mickelson. He can make any shot he wants to."
Just not this one.
So ended a bizarre week along the Pacific bluffs. A lefty won at Torrey Pines, just not the one Mickelson's hometown gallery wanted to see. Mickelson, the ultimate risk-taker of his era, opened himself up to criticism on the final hole because -- get this -- he played it safe.
As for Tiger Woods?
His five-tournament winning streak at Torrey Pines ended without hardly anyone noticing. Woods was done some two hours before the finish, and his 75 put him in a tie for 44th. He had never finished outside the top 10 at Torrey Pines, and it was his worst start to his golf season since he turned pro.
Mickelson offered no apologies for his decision to lay up.
His lie in the left rough looked to be OK, although the grain of the grass was into his ball and he had 228 yards to the flag. A hybrid would have come out heavy and gone into the water. He said his 3-wood would have come out hot and got well over the green, leaving a difficult chip. Mickelson figured his best chance at eagle was a 64-degree wedge from the fairway, using the bank behind the hole to help feed the ball to the cup.
As for his caddie, Jim Mackay, tending the pin on such a long shot?
"Obviously, you need to hit a great shot and you need to get some luck to hole one from the fairway," Mickelson said. "I'm not naive on that. I get it. But I also didn't want to have something in the way. It's not like I do it every week. But the last hole of the tournament, I've got to make it."
He didn't, although it was pure entertainment.
Mickelson tapped in for birdie and a 69, a score he thought would be enough to win at Torrey Pines for the first time in 10 years. Instead, he found himself chasing Watson and Jhonattan Vegas, the Venezuela rookie who won the Bob Hope Classic last week and had another chance to win until his 5-iron on the final hole found the water.
"Bubba played some terrific golf," Mickelson said. "I did what I thought would be enough, and it just wasn't. Bubba played too good. He made great shot after great shot, and made putt after putt. It was a wonderful round for him."
Watson hit such a monstrous drive on the par-5 13th that he had wedge left to the green on the 525-yard hole. But he won the tournament with his putter, especially on the last two holes.
With a one-shot lead over Vegas, and Mickelson lurking, Watson hit out of a fairway bunker and over the green on the 17th, and his chip raced 10 feet past the hole. After badly missing two birdies putts inside 10 feet, this one was pure.
Then came the 18th, where Watson blasted another tee shot and had a 7-iron into the green. He pushed that long and left, into a bunker and leaving himself another downhill shot. This came out ideally, leaving himself a 12-foot birdie putt that was true.
Then it was Mickelson's turn -- except that he already had taken it.
"I thought he was going for it," Watson said. "When I looked back down the fairway and I made the putt, I didn't want to get too excited because I thought it was him going for it. I didn't know he had already laid up."
It was a tough loss for Mickelson, especially with his wife, Amy, in the gallery for all four rounds for the first time since she was diagnosed with breast cancer in May 2009. Her prospects are looking up, and so are Mickelson's -- with his arthritis issues, and his game.
"I'm disappointed," Mickelson said. "I wanted to start the year off with a win. On the other hand, I played really good golf."
His runner-up finish will be enough to move to No. 4 in the world.
Watson finished at 16-under 272 for his second victory, although this one came against a much stronger field than his playoff win at the Travelers Championship last summer.
"It showed I can do it," he said. "I've done it twice now. I'm only 50 behind Phil and about 80 behind Tiger. So they better watch out."
Vegas made bogey for a 68 and tied for third with Dustin Johnson, who shot 66. Bill Haas, who shared the lead with Mickelson going into the final round, bogeyed the first hole and never caught up. He birdied the last hole for a 75 and tied for ninth.
Woods began the weekend only five shots out of the lead and never got closer. His final round began with him missing two birdie putts inside 10 feet, and it only got worse from there. He had never finished more than four shots out of the lead, and wound up 15 behind.
"I have some work to do," Woods said. "There's no doubt about that."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -- Tiger Woods says he plans to talk with developers about reviving his stalled Dubai golf estate, which was hit by the financial downturn.
A statement last month by the golf course developer -- part of a conglomerate controlled by Dubai's debt-squeezed ruler -- said "market conditions" were behind the decision to suspend work on the project. It includes a boutique hotel and sheik-style palaces.
Woods is in Dubai to play at the Dubai Desert Classic this week. He says he has meetings set up with Dubai Properties Group and "a lot depends" on what the developer wants to do.
Only a few holes have been completed on the $1 billion course. It's the centerpiece for a complex of 100 villas, 75 mansions and 22 palaces.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. -- John Daly is going multimedia. He now has a TV built into his golf bag.
Daly has signed up with ProBagAds.com, a new company that installs flat-screen monitors on a golf bag to display advertisements, much like an electronic billboard.
The screen rotates with Daly's various sponsors.
He says it only weighs about three pounds, so it's not a big strain on his caddie. And while it looks like a TV, Daly says he's trying to make it work like one. He says he will be able to program it through his mobile phone, and he hopes to get his home television programming on there. Daly says when he plays golf overseas, he wants to have something to watch on TV -- especially during football season.
Kyeong Bae first used the built-in monitor last year on the LPGA Tour.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MARANA, Ariz. -- Tim Clark has withdrawn from the Match Play Championship because of an elbow injury and been replaced in the 64-man field by J.B. Holmes.
Because the brackets have been set, Holmes will take Clark's position in the draw. He will face Camilo Villegas in the opening round.
Clark won The Players Championship a year ago and was the No. 22 seed. He has not played since he tied for second in the Sony Open at Honolulu last month.
Holmes has played the Accenture Match Play Championship only one time, losing to Tiger Woods on the 18th hole in the opening round.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Jordan Spieth, the teenager who won over the gallery at last year's HP Byron Nelson Championship and was in the hunt for the title until the back nine on Sunday, has agreed to return on a sponsor's exemption to the PGA Tour event in 2011.
Spieth will play in the Nelson, May 26-29, in an attempt to finish his senior year at Jesuit College Prep in style. The 17-year-old will play golf at the University of Texas next fall.
Spieth finished tied for 16th in last year's Nelson, stunning the golf world by playing well under pressure against many of the best players in the world. With eight holes left in his final round, Spieth was actually just three strokes off the lead. He wasn't able to muster a charge on the back nine, but Spieth generated the largest crowds and gave the tournament a big publicity boost. He played that final round with Ryder Cup captain Corey Pavin and soaked up all the knowledge he could from the experience.
"Jordan added a great energy to the tournament last year," tournament chairman John Beckert said in a statement. "And he certainly proved that he could compete at this level. I'm sure everyone will be interested to see how he follows that up on the course this year."
Spieth's golf resume is quite impressive. He won the 2009 U.S. Junior Amateur Championship and was victorious in the Class 5A state tournament just a week before the Nelson last year.
Spieth is now No. 2 in the Polo Golf Rankings for junior golfers and won the AJGA's HP Boys Championship in Houston earlier this week.
Richard Durrett covers golf for ESPNDallas.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PHOENIX --  Karrie Webb rallied to win the LPGA Founders Cup for her second straight victory, shooting a 6-under 66 on Sunday to beat Brittany Lincicome and Paula Creamer by a stroke.
Webb won when Lincicome bogeyed the final hole, missing a 10-foot par putt.
"I didn't think I'd be sitting here today talking about winning," Webb said. "But now that I am, it's such a great honor to win this tournament."
The 36-year-old Hall of Famer, the winner three weeks ago in Singapore, earned $200,000 for the Christopher & Dana Reeve Foundation and Japan relief efforts in the charity event at Wildfire Golf Club.
The Reeve Foundation supports spinal cord research, treatment and rehabilitation for those living with paralysis. Kelvin Haller, Webb's longtime coach back in Ayr, Australia, is a quadriplegic. He was paralyzed in an accident 20 years ago.
"That's why I've been associated with them. It's near and dear to my heart," Webb said. "I think they'll understand that I'm splitting the $200,000 between them and the relief efforts in Japan. ... Japan, the fans, the people and many businesses over there have supported me throughout my entire career. It's just the least that I could do."
Instead of paying the players, the tournament honoring the 13 tour founders donated $1 million to charity -- half to The LPGA Foundation and its LPGA-USGA Girls Golf program and half to the top-10 finishers' designated charities.
"I think we need to celebrate these ladies more than we do," Webb said. "I wouldn't have had the career that I've had and the life that I've had if it weren't for those 13 women. ... I think they did a fantastic job to get this tournament run as well as it was. You wouldn't know that they had only a few months to put it together."
Webb has 38 LPGA Tour victories, also winning the previous Phoenix event in 2009 at Papago and in 1999 at Moon Valley. She finished at 12-under 204.
"I love coming out to the desert," Webb said.
Lincicome shot a 70, and Creamer had a 66.
Cristie Kerr was fourth at 10 under after a 69.
After opening with a 71, Webb shot a 67 on Saturday, leaving her six strokes behind second-round leader Angela Stanford.
Stanford, 12 under after opening with consecutive 66s, had three three-putt bogeys in a 75 that left her fifth at 9 under.
"Bad putting," Stanford said.
Webb tied Lincicome at 11 under with a 5-foot birdie putt on the par-3 14th and took the lead with a tap-in birdie on the par-5 15th.
Lincicome matched Webb at 12 under with a short birdie putt of her own on 15.
Webb made a 3-foot putt for par on the par-4 18th after leaving her approach shot in the fringe in front of the green.
Lincicome also ended up in the fringe short of the final green, but ran her chip 10 feet past the hole and missed the putt for her second bogey of the week.
"I did a lot of good things. Just one bad hole," Lincicome said.
From the driving range, Webb was able to follow the action on No. 18 by watching a TV above a bar in a hospitality area, though there was a slight delay on broadcast.
"You don't ever want a player to miss a putt," Webb said.
Lincicome didn't know she was tied for the lead.
"I never look at leaderboards," she said. "For some strange reason, I had it in my mind that Cristie Kerr was running away with it."
Webb knew exactly where she stood on the leaderboard.
"I'm a scoreboard watcher," she said. "Even if I'm not on the leaderboard, I like looking at it to see what everyone is shooting."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CHARLOTTE, N.C. --  Phil Mickelson will play in the Wells Fargo Championship at Quail Hollow Club.
Mickelson committed to the Charlotte PGA Tour event for the eighth time on Wednesday in what will be his first tournament since the Masters. Mickelson finished second by four strokes to Rory McIlroy a year ago and has five top 10 finishes at Quail Hollow.
The tournament begins May 5.
Quail Hollow officials are waiting for Tiger Woods' decision. Players have until April 29 to commit.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Geoff Ogilvy has withdrawn from the Wells Fargo Championship because of a sore left shoulder.
Ogilvy says his shoulder was bothering him slightly toward the end of the Masters and at the Texas Open. He figured it would be fine when he got to Quail Hollow in Charlotte, but says he wants another week of rest to make sure it doesn't become a problem.
He is expected to play next week at The Players Championship and in Texas, the home state of his wife.
Ogilvy says it wouldn't be sensible to try to play at Wells Fargo with so many big tournaments coming up, from The Players Championship to three majors this summer.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Of all the times Bill Haas has played Quail Hollow, he never had a round quite like this.
Haas had stress-free birdies on all the par 5s and did little wrong on the rest of the holes Thursday in the Wells Fargo Championship, matching the tournament record for lowest opening round with an 8-under 64 for a two-shot lead.
"I've got good feelings around this place," Haas said.
It was his best score by four shots at Quail Hollow on the PGA Tour, and way better than two dozen rounds he played as a kid when he would tag along with his father, Jay Haas, on the special trips they made to the course.
Haas had a two-shot lead over David Toms and Jonathan Byrd, who each had a 66 in the morning when it was barely above 40 degrees at the start of the tournament with a north wind that is uncommon for this tournament.
Ultimately, the afternoon turned out to be perfect -- much like Haas and his round.
He did have a few key par saves, such as the 10-foot putt he made at the turn on the 18th hole. The key for Haas, though, was getting off to a good start on the slightly tougher back nine, and knowing he could afford to make a few mistakes.
Defending champion Rory McIlroy made some errors early, and he never quite caught up. In his first trip back to America after his Sunday collapse in the Masters, the 22-year-old from Northern Ireland opened with a 75.
"The story of the day for me is I really didn't hit it very well, which is unlike me," McIlroy said. "It'd be the strength of my game and today I just wasn't striking it well. My timing was off just a little bit."
Pat Perez and Lucas Glover were at 67, while Rickie Fowler overcame a rugged start -- two bogeys on his opening three holes -- to lead a group at 68 that included Vijay Singh and Stuart Appleby.
Phil Mickelson, in his first event since the Masters, hit two balls in the water on par 5s and scrambled for par each time. The first one was critical. He already was 1 over for the tournament through six holes when he came out of the pine straw and into the pond at No. 7. He holed a 12-foot par putt, then made birdie on the next four holes.
He wound up with a 69, along with Padraig Harrington.
"I hadn't played in a few weeks, and to shoot under par was a good start," Mickelson said. "It could have been a lot better, could have been a lot worse. I'll certainly take it."
The cold air made Quail Hollow play even longer in the morning, and it was particularly tough on the guys who don't blast it. Toms fits into that category, which explains why he had to hit fairway metals for his second shot on three par 4s. The good news is he made par on all of them, and threw in seven birdies for a 66.
"It was cold this morning, and we were all out there with our jackets and sweaters on and playing these long par 4s," Toms said. "If I can shoot 3 under on the front nine, as long as it played, I'll take that any day."
Toms won the first edition of this tournament in 2003.
Byrd rarely plays well here. Except for a tie for fifth a few years ago, he missed the cut in his other five appearance. He almost thought about skipping the Wells Fargo Championship, except that it's close to his South Carolina roots.
"It's pretty odd," said Byrd, who opened the year with a playoff win at Kapalua. "If it wasn't close to home, I might start saying, 'I just don't play well there, I need to go home.' But my family is close to home here in Columbia, South Carolina, and it's not far from Clemson. They just knock it out of the park at this golf tournament, and it's a tournament I can't miss."
Haas wouldn't miss it, either -- not now, certainly not as a kid. He grew up in Greenville, S.C., although his father was a member and they often made the 90-mile drive to Quail Hollow.
"My dad would say, 'Let's go play Quail tomorrow.' It was a bigger deal than just playing at home," he said.
Haas figures he played some 30 rounds before turning pro. He also has good memories of the times he played the tournament with his father, older brother (Jay Jr.) and his uncle (Jerry Haas).
Even so, nothing compares to playing and making so many birdies.
Haas opened his round with a 3-wood onto the 10th green for a two-putt birdie, and a 7-iron to 15 feet on the 12th, which played as the second-toughest hole in the opening round. Then came a 30-foot birdie on the 14th, and an easy up-and-down from the front bunker on the par-5 15th for a birdie.
He knew birdie chances awaited on the front with two par 5s, and he made birdie there, too.
Haas tinkered with a belly putter at Hilton Head a few weeks ago because the greens are flat. He was back to a conventional putter on the contoured greens of Quail Hollow, and wound up making his share of them.
"Putted well," he said, "which leads to everything."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ST. AUGUSTINE, Fla. --  Ernie Els followed the trail of South African idol Gary Player by winning golf tournaments all over the world, a journey that took him all the way to the World Golf Hall of Fame.
Els, a three-time major champion and the ultimate global player of his generation, was among six people inducted Monday night at the World Golf Village. Known as the "Big Easy" for his languid swing and soothing smile, Els won 62 times around the world, including the U.S. Open twice and a British Open at Muirfield.
"It's been a long journey coming from South Africa," Els said at the two-hour ceremony.
Even as he still pursues more majors, Els is heavily involved in research and finding a cure for autism. His 8-year-old son, Ben, is autistic, and the boy was escorted into the room as a video of Els' career was being played, his eyes fixated on the screen. Els later spoke of the joy he feels having his son sit on the range with him as he hits balls.
"He'll sit there and watch the ball take off in the blue sky," Els said.
Els was elected on the PGA Tour ballot. Japanese icon Jumbo Ozaki, who won more than 100 tournaments, was voted into the Hall of Fame on the International ballot. Doug Ford and the late Jock Hutchison, both two-time major champions, were selected through the Veterans category. Former President George H.W. Bush and the late Frank Chirkinian, the television golf producer for CBS Sports, were selected through the Lifetime Achievement category.
Their induction brought membership in the Hall of Fame to 136.
Els and Ford were the only inductees at the ceremony. Ozaki has a back injury that makes it difficult to travel, and he felt he needed to be home with his family as Japan recovers from the earthquake and tsunami. Bush also was not able to attend. Chirkinian had a videotaped message that was made just days before he died.
The ceremony included a tribute to another Hall of Famer, Seve Ballesteros, who died Saturday of a cancerous brain tumor.
Players must be at least 40 to be considered for the Hall of Fame, and Els was voted in on his first try. This is the first time since Vijay Singh in 2006 when an active player was inducted. Els practiced Monday morning at the TPC Sawgrass as he prepares for The Players Championship this week.
"I think it'll be a very special feeling to step on the first tee knowing you've made the Hall of Fame," he before the ceremony. "I'm still trying to win golf tournaments, still trying to win major championships. I think it's a huge bonus for anybody's career."
Els grew up knowing he would have to travel the world to play golf. The example came from Player, who has logged more air miles than any other golfer.
Els won the Junior World Championship in San Diego as a teenager, beating Phil Mickelson. He won nine times on three tours when he broke through in 1994, winning the U.S. Open at Oakmont in a playoff that lasted 20 holes in stifling heat.
He won another U.S. Open at Congressional three years later, and captured the British Open in 2002.
"Coming from South Africa, I didn't even know there was a Hall of Fame," Els said. "I look back in the records now, the Hall of Fame has been going since 1940. So obviously, I missed something. My dream was to win majors and to try to do what Gary Player did, win the Grand Slam and win a bunch of golf tournaments, trying to get onto the U.S. tour and things like that."
Asked what made him unique, Els said he would leave that for others to decide.
"You don't get inducted in here without doing something to catch people's attention, whether it's winning 18 or 19 majors like Jack Nicklaus or building golf courses like Pete Dye," he said. "There are people here that have done special things in the game of golf. I feel I've won my fair share of tournaments around the world, a truly global golfer like my idol, Gary Player."
The Hall of Fame induction is an awkward one for Ford, who was part of the original Hall of Fame in Pinehurst, N.C. He never received enough votes for election on the PGA Tour ballot, but was taken in the Veterans category.
"It's like waiting for an old girlfriend, I guess. You keep thinking, 'What did I do wrong?" Ford said before the ceremony. "I thought I had some fairly good records, and you just hope that you get here. Of course, it's an honor. You just go to get here somehow."
He told of wanting to play baseball for the Yankees, and trying to decide whether to sign with one of its farm teams. Ford said his father asked him how long he could play baseball, and he said about 10 years.
"He said, 'Why don't you stay with the golf. You'll last forever," Ford said. He still plays at age 88.
Ozaki won only one time outside of Japan, yet he inspired a nation of golfers behind him. He captured the Japan Golf Tour money list 12 times and won the Japan Open five times.
Bush becomes the second U.S. president in the World Golf Hall of Fame; Dwight D. Eisenhower was inducted in 2009. Bush was selected for helping to raise the profile of golf, serving as honorary chairman of The First Tee and the Presidents Cup.
Chirkinian died of cancer on March 4, just three weeks after learning he had been selected for induction. He was the foremost golf producer at CBS Sports, leading its coverage of the Masters for nearly four decades. Among his innovations were installing a camera on the blimp and using scores in relation to par to show who was leading tournaments.
The Scottish-born Hutchison won the 1920 PGA Championship and the 1921 British Open among the 14 wins in his career.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ORLANDO, Fla. --  Tiger Woods says he's staying with his agent.
Mark Steinberg, who has been managing golf's biggest star since 1999, did not renew his contract with IMG two weeks ago and no longer is with the company. Woods had his choice of staying with IMG or going with Steinberg.
The answer came Monday on Twitter. Woods posted: "Staying with Mark Steinberg. Total confidence in him. Excited about the next stage in my professional life. Fond memories of Mark McCormack."
What remains to be seen is whether Steinberg signs with another management company or starts his own. Whatever the case, Woods will be going with him. Woods had been with IMG since he turned pro in 1996.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PAST NATIONWIDE TOUR RESULTS: 2002 | 2003
OTHER SCHEDULES:  PGA | LPGA |  CHAMPIONS | EUROPE | ESPN/ABC SCHEDULE

x-Won in playoff
z-Unofficial event
y-Weather-shortened event
Bold, all-caps events are major championships
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PAST NATIONWIDE TOUR RESULTS: 2004 | 2003 | 2002
OTHER SCHEDULES: PGA | LPGA |  CHAMPIONS | EUROPE

x-Won in playoff
z-Unofficial event
y-Weather-shortened event
Bold, all-caps events are major championships
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CHASKA, Minn. -- Third-round scores Saturday from the first round of the $5.5 million PGA Championship, played at the 7,360-yard, par-72 Hazeltine National Golf Club:
Justin Leonard       72-66-69--207	9-under
Rich Beem            72-66-72--210	6-under
Fred Funk            68-70-73--211	5-under
Tiger Woods          71-69-72--212	4-under
Mark Calcavecchia    70-68-74--212
Chris Riley          71-70-72--213	3-under
Rocco Mediate        72-73-70--215	1-under
Jose Coceres         72-71-72--215
Steve Lowery         71-71-73--215
Peter Lonard         69-73-75--217	1-over
Jim Furyk            68-73-76--217
Retief Goosen        69-69-79--217
Pierre Fulke         72-68-78--218	2-over
Adam Scott           71-71-76--218
Justin Rose          69-73-76--218
Greg Norman          71-74-73--218
Ernie Els            72-71-75--218
Ricardo Gonzalez     74-73-71--218
Padraig Harrington   71-73-74--218
Kevin Sutherland     72-75-71--218
Steve Flesch         72-74-73--219	3-over
Vijay Singh          71-74-74--219
Jeff Sluman          70-75-74--219
Bernhard Langer      70-72-77--219
Robert Allenby       76-66-77--219
Kenny Perry          73-68-78--219
Stewart Cink         74-74-72--220	4-over
Soren Hansen         73-69-78--220
Chris Smith          75-73-72--220
Neal Lancaster       72-73-75--220
Cameron Beckman      74-71-75--220
Toshimitsu Izawa     72-73-75--220
Michael Campbell     73-70-77--220
Tom Lehman           71-72-77--220
Hal Sutton           73-73-75--221	5-over
Brad Faxon           74-72-75--221
Davis Love III       70-75-76--221
Angel Cabrera        71-73-77--221
Nick Faldo           71-76-74--221
Stuart Appleby       72-74-74--221
Sergio Garcia        75-73-73--221
Charles Howell       72-69-80--221
Briny Baird          79-69-73--221
Craig Perks          72-76-74--222	6-over
Chris DiMarco        76-69-77--222
Scott McCarron       73-71-78--222
Tim Clark            72-74-76--222
Heath Slocum         73-74-75--222
Steve Elkington      72-75-76--223	7-over
Kirk Triplett        75-69-79--223
Lee Janzen           70-76-77--223
Len Mattiace         74-73-76--223
John Huston          74-74-75--223
Shigeki Maruyama     76-72-75--223
David Duval          71-77-76--224	8-over
Joel Edwards         73-74-77--224
Loren Roberts        77-70-77--224
Mike Weir            73-74-77--224
Joe Durant           74-71-79--224
Brian Gay            73-74-78--225	9-over
J.J. Henry           78-70-77--225
Phil Mickelson       76-72-77--225
Jose Maria Olazabal  73-75-78--226	10-over
Joey Sindelar        77-71-78--226
Dave Tentis          76-72-78--226
J.P. Hayes           73-75-78--226
Don Berry            76-71-80--227	11-over
Tom Watson           76-71-83--230	14-over
Matt Gogel           74-73-83--230
Thomas Levet         78-70-82--230
Pat Perez            77-71-85--233	17-over
Stephen Ames         73-74--WD
Didn't make the cut after the second round
Fuzzy Zoeller        76-73--149
K.J. Choi            78-71--149
David Gossett        72-77--149
Skip Kendall         74-75--149
Thomas Bjorn         74-75--149
Paul Lawrie          75-74--149
J.L. Lewis           76-73--149
Darren Clarke        79-70--149
Ian Leggatt          75-74--149
Nick Price           72-77--149
Larry Nelson         76-73--149
Rory Sabbatini       74-75--149
Scott Verplank       77-72--149
Greg Owen            76-73--149
Chad Campbell        74-76--150
John Rollins         77-73--150
Dean Wilson          74-76--150
Bob Tway             74-76--150
Paul Azinger         76-74--150
Spike McRoy          74-76--150
Eduardo Romero       73-77--150
Duffy Waldorf        77-73--150
Jonathan Kaye        77-73--150
Sean Farren          74-76--150
Jay Haas             77-73--150
Jerry Kelly          77-73--150
Tim Herron           76-75--151
John Cook            75-76--151
Taichi Teshima       77-74--151
Mark O'Meara         75-76--151
David Toms           77-74--151
Tim Herron           76-75--151
Colin Montgomerie    74-78--152
Anders Hansen        79-73--152
Craig Parry          75-77--152
Steve Stricker       74-78--152
Tori Taniguchi       75-77--152
Matt Kuchar          78-74--152
Billy Andrade        75-77--152
James Blair          74-78--152
Rick Hartmann        79-73--152
Carl Pettersson      77-75--152
Bruce Zabriski       75-77--152
Robert Gamez         76-76--152
Shingo Katayama      74-78--152
Carl Paulson         73-79--152
Paul McGinley        74-79--153
Rob Labritz          78-75--153
Peter O'Malley       79-74--153
Billy Mayfair        77-76--153
John Daly            77-76--153
Frank Lickliter      77-76--153
Tim Thelen           75-78--153
Mark Brooks          75-79--154
Mike Gilmore         78-76--154
David Peoples        79-76--155
Jeff Maggert         78-77--155
Scott Hoch           80-75--155
Jesper Parnevik      82-73--155
Robert Thompson      78-77--155
Joseph Klinchock     79-77--156
Scott Laycock        80-76--156
Jeffrey Lankford     80-76--156
Barry Evans          80-76--156
Niclas Fasth         79-77--156
Craig Stevens        82-75--157
Dudley Hart          82-75--157
Curtis Strange       81-76--157
Bob Estes            81-76--157
Tim Fleming          77-81--158
Lee Westwood         75-83--158
Alan Morin           82-77--159
Phillip Price        76-83--159
Paul Casey           85-74--159
Tim Weinhart         77-82--159
Buddy Harston        76-83--159
Wayne DeFrancesco    78-82--160
Steve Schneiter      86-77--163
Barry Mahlberg       80-86--166
Kim Thompson         87-80--167
Kent Stauffer        87-80--167
Tom Dolby            85-94--179
Bill Porter          86-WD
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SPRINGFIELD, N.J. -- Thousands of fans lined the fairways, waiting to cheer home a winner. Millions of television viewers tuned in to watch what was shaping up to be an exciting conclusion. The stage was set for the year's final major champion to be crowned.
All of it was lost in the early-evening darkness Sunday at Baltusrol Golf Club, where fans were denied a winner and the PGA of America was left to make excuses.
It didn't have to happen this way.
The 87th PGA Championship could have -- should have -- finished on Sunday.
Despite a weather forecast that suggested there was a strong possibility of rain and lightning during the afternoon, the PGA of America selfishly stuck to its plan to have the leaders go off at 3 p.m. ET, leaving very little margin for error.
It got burned, and not by the scorching sun. And if it weren't for the many, many people who lose in this situation, you could say that the PGA of America got what it deserved.
Kerry Haigh, the managing director of tournaments for the PGA of America, said it was the organization's call -- and its call only -- on whether or not to alter the tee times for Sunday. And to hear him talk, the idea was barely considered.
Even though Phil Mickelson complained on Saturday that it was getting dark when he was completing his third round.
Even though a three-hole aggregate playoff would still have to be contested if two more players tied after 72 holes.
Even though a 7 p.m. finish -- with everything going right -- left less than an hour of daylight.
You have to wonder if the PGA wasn't looking out for its television partner, CBS-TV, in this deal. CBS pays the organization millions for broadcast rights, and having a tournament that goes right up to 7 p.m. in the East is perfect for ratings and a great lead-in to 60 Minutes ... which, by the way, conveniently came on only a few minutes after play was officially suspended.
"If we absolutely knew for sure we were going to get hit [by rain] at 6 in the afternoon, then we would certainly talk about it and figure out if it make sense to make an alteration," Haigh said. "But the chance of scattered showers, scattered storms, was not necessarily reason to do that."
What more reason could there be?
For most of the week, temperatures have hovered in the high 90s, with much humidity. You don't have to be Willard Scott to know these weather patterns present an excellent chance for thunderstorms, including lightning. The PGA of America, which is based in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., where this kind of weather is prevalent in the summer, should know better.
Several players wondered why the tee times simply were not moved up. The PGA Tour does it all the time when there is a threat of bad weather. Better to move up the tee times and have nothing happen than to wait and face what we now face. It happened at last year's Masters, where Mickelson won by a stroke. Nobody seemed to mind that Mickelson's victory leap came an hour earlier. Certainly not those who were there and those who got to see it on live TV.
The first tee time Sunday morning was at 8. Had it been at 7, there is a chance the round could have been completed.
"[On Saturday], I had asked to go an hour earlier to try to get it in," Mickelson said. "I thought that [Saturday] night was a bit of a struggle in the last three or four holes seeing in the light, and when we had a delay before we teed off [Sunday], I knew that there was no chance of finishing, or at least I didn't think there was."
Then there is the competition itself that will be altered. Mickelson himself admitted that he thinks it was a break for him, that with a one-shot lead, he'll now get to play some of the finishing holes in conditions that are likely to not be as severe.
It is nobody's fault that the weather turned bad. That is part of golf, part of what professional players deal with week to week.
But it didn't have to come to this.
We should be celebrating a champion now.
Bob Harig covers golf for the St. Petersburg Times and is a frequent contributor to ESPN.com. He can be reached at harig@sptimes.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Some of them traveled from half a globe away directly to the United States, while others came here via Europe. A few attended college; most didn't. A number have Americans wives, several have married women from back home, and then there are still onesomes. They tend to settle in clusters -- Florida, Arizona, Texas. Each has a different story, albeit based on a similar dream, and each possesses a distinct personality, although there is definitely a group disposition -- high on pride, low on hubris -- that separates this bunch from others. One other thing -- these Australian golfers can play. "Nice of you to say," intones Peter Lonard. "But have you considered that maybe we have nothing else to do?" Like, nothing better than to take over the PGA Tour? There are now 23 Australians in golf's biggest league, by far the largest contingent from any country save this one, with more to come.
This season the men from Down Under have amassed seven victories, topped by Geoff Ogilvy's U.S. Open conquest in June -- the first major for an Aussie since Steve Elkington's 1995 PGA Championship. Ogilvy also won the WGC-Accenture Match Play. Stuart Appleby opened the year on cue, snagging his third consecutive Mercedes Championships. Rod Pampling triumphed at Bay Hill, Aaron Baddeley dislodged Lonard as Verizon Heritage champion, followed by Appleby at the Shell Houston Open. The John Deere went to John Senden. That's your basic trophy-per-month average, and Adam Scott, the highest-ranked mate of them all, a staple of the world's top 10, hasn't won, at least not yet.
"Am I surprised? Not in the least," says Peter Thomson. "Our nursery is producing well and will continue to." Thomson won five British Opens, cleaned up during the early stages of the senior tour and captained the Aussie-laden International team that thrashed the U.S. in the 1998 Presidents Cup. If he is the godfather of Australian golf, there are those who came before and after, including Norman Von Nida, Jim Ferrier, Bruce Devlin, Bruce Crampton, Kel Nagle, David Graham and Jack Newton. But when Wayne Grady won the 1990 PGA Championship and a year later, Ian Baker-Finch the British, twentysomethings such as Ogilvy and Scott were probably not glued to the tube.
To this generation of Aussies, The Man is The Shark. Ask any of these lads -- including Elkington, now 44 -- who convinced them to pack their gear in search of fairways, greens and more green in the States and one name surfaces: Greg Norman.
"Not only did I watch how he played, but how he conducted himself," says Scott. "If I had found, when I finally met him, that he was not what I thought he'd be, I would have been disappointed. It was anything but. He gave me his phone number, and when I got the courage to ring him up, he talked to me for an hour." Baddeley made his PGA Tour debut at the 2000 Honda Classic. "Greg had me and my caddie stay with him," he says. "One day he's your idol, next day you have the keys to his house. What he's done for us, what he's done for the sport, we'll never know completely because he does so much of his work behind the scenes."
Norman blushes when he hears all this. "If I had a small part in the success of these players, I'm happier for that than any trophies I have," says Norman. "It's difficult to go out on your own, to make a success of yourself, and I appreciate it if these younger guys choose to emulate some of the things I've accomplished, rather than be jealous of them."
But, as Appleby notes, it's one thing to identify a role model and another to follow his footsteps. In Australia all paths lead to the golf course. "Contrary to what some geographically challenged Americans think, there are more places to play in Australia than Royal Melbourne," says Elkington. "There's one on every corner. Plus, we're a sporting nation. We're participants, not spectators." The price to partake bears no resemblance to American fees. "I joined a private club back home for $20,000, which is outrageous by our standards," says Lonard. That's less than a third of the initiation fee for Medinah CC outside Chicago, site of next week's PGA Championship.
"Where I live in Florida," says Robert Allenby, "to get into Jack Nicklaus' Bears Club or the Medalist, where Greg belongs, it's a fortune. That doesn't happen back home. I know a place near my home, Yarra Yarra, where a corporate membership is $25,000, but with that, 10 players can play. And kids are everywhere. There are clubs that will pay for a junior membership, which isn't much, if the kid will stay in school, which is terrific."
Juniors are welcome most everywhere, for a few dollars or for free. When Norman toiled in a pro shop during his teens, he recalls having scant privileges, even on the practice range. "But kids are our future, so let's put a club in their hands," says Norman, who like several current players funds a junior golf foundation in Australia.
Elkington was scouted by the University of Houston, which he attended. But that is a rarity for Aussies. "There's sort of a black-hole period back home," he says, "between when you're too young to turn pro and not old enough to drink." But the truly gifted may attend what is tantamount in the U.S. to a vocational school, where you major in sports. "After our country didn't win a gold medal at the Montreal Olympics in 1976, the government got involved," says Dale Lynch, Ogilvy's coach. "Even though golf isn't an Olympic sport, we were eventually included in what we have now." He refers to the Victorian Institute of Sport, where the exceptionally talented in more than two dozen forms of athletics develop their skills. When golf became part of the VIS in the early '90s, Steve Bann and Lynch were the original instructors. The VIS produced Appleby, Allenby, Baddeley, Ogilvy and Richard Green and has been so successful that other Australian states have established their own institutes.
"We don't have a university system [as in the U.S.], with big-time sports," says Bann, who like Lynch left the VIS at the behest of one of his longtime students, Appleby. "The VIS exists under government money and corporate involvement, including Titleist," says Bann. "Could something like that be done in the United States? If you could find people willing to work for next to nothing to be part of a great thing." Indeed, according to Lynch, the first budget for golf was about $130,000. "They gave us that, and said to Steve and myself, 'Here, start a program,'" says Lynch. "Our salaries came out of that too." Lynch estimates the VIS golf laboratory now operates on about $200,000 per annum.
The program doesn't subscribe to the "pressure of now" that pervades America's intercollegiate landscape, according to Lynch. Here, golf prodigies are recruited by colleges, provided uniforms and propelled into a fast-forward mode which demands they shoot scores for the team, or else. "We take more of a long-range approach," says Bann. "That starts with kids. We have junior competitions, but the emphasis is on getting them on the course, hitting the ball hard, enjoying the act of playing and then worry about technique. When [Appleby] was 18, his goal was to win on the PGA Tour at 25, which he did. But it's doubtful a college golfer could have a seven-year plan like that." Lynch explains that the last two years of high school in Australia, grades 11 and 12, are comparable to the first two in U.S. colleges. During those years, students turn their focus toward specialized areas of interest. VIS golfers, regardless of what grade they are in, study not only swing mechanics, but life skills, such as how to book their own travel, budget their finances, even prepare for the carnivorous media. "At the VIS, there is a lot of time devoted to nutrition, physical fitness and how it applies to an individual's game," says Lynch. "We don't dwell on how a guy looks at the beach. We want to see how he looks going through the ball." Lynch surmises that the perfect nurturing ground for a golfer would be a mix of both methods -- the American college system for higher education, and the Australian template for allowing golfers to develop without the onus of producing birdies for one's institution.
Thomson is not so circumspect, saying that with the emphasis and the money expended on American intercollegiate golf, the results are "pathetic." Hank Haney, Tiger Woods' guru, who served a brief stint as head coach of SMU in the 1990s, tends to agree. "Where are all our kids? There are none," he says. "I went over there [Australia] in May to speak and was blown away by questions from their PGA professionals. They're very knowledgeable and, unlike over here, they have to maintain a 2-handicap. They aren't stuck behind a desk in the shop, doing paperwork. Part of our problem is lack of continuity. Kids here have a teacher for years. They then go to college and have a coach, who may have different methods. That hurts a player's development. Steve Bann, meanwhile, has been with Stuart forever. Same with Dale Lynch and Ogilvy."
Vern McMillan once had a huge job with the VIS, overseeing physical preparation for all sports, or about 1,000 athletes. He, too, has has left VIS to work with Aussie golfers, along with two assistants, Dave Darbyshire and Steve Adams. They travel from stop to stop on the PGA Tour, training the Aussies, who pay their expenses and salaries. "We want our guys to be leading healthy lives when they're 65," says McMillan. "We want them to win out here, of course, but there are more important things. We like to have fun, too." Indeed, the Aussies are rather loose. Allenby finds modern paralysis-through-analysis instruction methods ridiculous. "I can't think of all the things some guys teach, not just over here," he says. "Just swing the club on plane and hit it."
Whatever the reason, the Aussies are technically sound and invariably fit. As Scott says, "I doubt any of us only played golf as a kid." The only one of them who has an unorthodox swing, and slightly rounder body, is Craig Parry.  And his peers reverently refer to him as "old school." Despite their lack of "formal" education as we know it -- that almighty college diploma -- the Aussies are well-spoken and worldly. "Probably because we all had to travel young," says Pampling. "If you want to play golf, you gotta leave town. When you get on that Qantas flight as a kid, you're on your own."
Scott is a bachelor star who maintains addresses in London, Switzerland and Queensland. Yet, at age 26, he gets the big picture. "He told me, 'Vern, if I ever talk about buying a house on a golf course, stop me,'" says McMillan. "You need a sense of balance," says Scott, who attended UNLV for a year and a half but resisted the emphasis on structure. "If I wanted to hit balls and it was time for the team dinner, I went to dinner."
With the tour in Australia hurting, the heat is on its players to return for the limited summer schedule (November, December). When Scott opted to play the U.S.-based Skins Game over an Aussie event a couple years ago, he was crucified by the hometown press. "An absolute disgrace, what they wrote about Adam," says Norman. That's another Aussie trait, besides the wry humor Appleby labels "slightly more warped than yours." These guys stick together like glue. When Mark Hensby, who admits being the oddball/loner in the group, was quoted as chiding Norman for failure to help the tour back home -- "read the transcript, that's not what I said" implores Hensby -- he was roasted by Allenby for breaking the code: Be loyal to your mates. Scott was ready to fly to London when Ogilvy won at Winged Foot, but got off the plane to celebrate with his pal, Lynch, the trainers and others who joined him in a hotel lobby. The champ wore jeans. "I toasted Geoff with numerous drinks myself," says Lonard. "And I wasn't even there. I was home in Orlando."
It's a different culture, says Elkington. "We're tough to beat -- and last to leave the bar," he says. "We don't go to the course back home to see who's got the biggest car. I might play with a butcher. Australians like their athletes, but if we act like we're special, we'll hear about it. We aren't about wealth, and we don't have all your PC police. A rule at home in Wagga Wagga is no dogs in the bar after 8 at night. We don't get uptight." That might be the Aussie advantage. "Golf is best played when relaxed, right?" says Allenby. "Well, we know how to do both. Play and relax. We don't live to play golf. We play golf to live."
Bob Verdi is a senior writer for Golf World magazine
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
To begin the story of the only major champion in the history of golf who was relieved to hear that he had low testosterone, you have to go back to the summer of 1993, when Shaun Micheel of Memphis was 24 and barely aware that he had just stripped off all of his golf clothes and was running into the Neuse River in his boxer shorts. "It happened so fast, it was surreal," he says. "It was like I was drawn into the river. I didn't have a choice."
The TC Jordan mini-tour was stopping in North Carolina, but a car on the hill didn't even pause as it ran out of road and nose-dived off a small cliff into the water with an elderly couple inside. "I remember how mad I was at the guy because he wouldn't get out of the car," Micheel says. "It seems so silly now. The windshield had collapsed in. I grabbed him and yanked him through it." Both the driver and the passenger were saved.
Ten years later, Shaun had a one-stroke lead and a 7-iron in his hand, 174 yards from the 72nd hole of the PGA Championship at Oak Hill, just his third major. "I failed to qualify for the U.S. Open that summer," he says, "and I didn't have any expectations at Oak Hill. A hundred and 56 guys in the field. One winner. What were the odds it was going to be me?" But he knocked the 7-iron within inches and made his 21st birdie of the week. It was like he was drawn into the hole. He didn't have a choice.
As everyone who ever came out of nowhere will tell you, the return trip is the killer. "When I didn't back it up with any good results," he says, "I started to be labeled a one-hit wonder." Though Micheel played four days in all of the majors of 2004, and shook off an opening-round 77 to tie for 24th in defense of his PGA title, he was depressed. "It wasn't so much that I played so bad. It was that I felt so bad. I lost my drive. I didn't enjoy practicing anymore. I presumed this was the normal decline from such a high. If I made a couple of bogeys, I just wanted to go home."
At home, Shaun was less charming than he had been before he was famous. "I seemed to be tired all the time, and irritable," he says. "I wasn't myself. I became a new father in November of '03, and now I'm trying to be a good husband, a good father to this precious little thing, and a major champion. And I'm failing at everything."
Shaun, 37, and wife Stephanie grew up in the same subdivision near the Colonial Country Club in Memphis. She was 11, he 13, when they started to fall in love. "Stephanie was the one who finally said, 'You've got to go to the doctor.' You know men. We don't go to the doctor on our own. We never ask directions."
For three days, he awaited the results of the blood test, especially braced to hear the words clinical depression. ("All sorts of stigmas attach to that.") When the doctor said "extremely low testosterone," the sky began to clear. An estimated 5 million American men are affected by low-T in some way. From a list of possible treatments, Shaun chose a gel that he rubs on his arms. That was in April of 2005. By September, Micheel's T-reading was in the normal range. His gentle nature returned.
"It doesn't make every drive go down the middle," he says, "but it makes me able to enjoy practicing again, to enjoy my family again. I'm not shooting for elevated counts, either. Just normal ones." These days, all of his goals are reasonable. "On Sunday in L.A., I went out and shot 67, and moved up from like 60th to 30th. I was proud of myself. At the Honda I shot 67 in the wind and moved up to 23rd. I was a pro again." In consecutive spring weeks, Shaun finished 12th and 13th. He was back among the top 100 money-winners. "In a way, it's like the PGA just happened," he says.
Two fellow tour players who read about Shaun's low-T in the newspaper made discreet inquiries. He says one has already been diagnosed and is electing a different treatment.
"Maybe I am a one-hit wonder," Micheel says. "Maybe that's going to be the case. I hope not. At Oak Hill, I never lost the lead after Friday--tied once or twice, but never out of the lead. I think I can do it again. What I know is, we're just people out here, going through the same things people go through. Whatever comes, I ought to be able to handle it as well as anyone."
Who else has saved two lives? Maybe even three.
Tom Callahan is a contributing editor for Golf Digest magazine
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SHEBOYGAN, Wis. -- The only number that matters at the PGA Championship is on the scorecard, not the birth certificate.
Golf has been trending toward youth over the past several years, and on a Saturday at Whistling Straits, the final major of the year turned out to be a showcase of the next generation.
Leading the way was Nick Watney, whose college friends called him "Rube" after a character in "Major League II" because he was so polite to the seniors. He showed no mercy to Whistling Straits by firing off five birdies in the opening seven holes, leading the 29-year-old American to a 6-under 66 and a three-shot lead.
Right behind were 26-year-old Dustin Johnson and 21-year-old Rory McIlroy, two of the most talented young players on either side of the Atlantic. Both of them left their marks in the majors already this year, Johnson as the 54-hole leader in the U.S. Open, McIlroy for tying a record with a 63 at St. Andrews in the opening round of the British Open.
Of the top six on the leaderboard -- five of those players in their 20s -- none has won a major. The last time the top six contenders were this green in the PGA Championship was in 1992 at Bellerive, which Nick Price won for the first of his three majors.
"There's some really good players that haven't won a major," Watney said. "And all the guys that have, at one point they hadn't won, either. So you've got to start somewhere. And hopefully, tomorrow will be my day."
Watney only seriously struggled at the end, when he went from deep rough on the right of the 18th to deep rough in the side of a hill left of the green. He did well to make a bogey and finish three long days at 13-under 203.
Johnson found enough accuracy to go with his awesome power for a 67, giving him a shot at redemption. He had a three-shot lead at the U.S. Open, only to lose it all on the second hole on his way to an 82.
He figures that will only help him.
"Any time you can be in that situation and know what to expect, you've definitely got a leg up on the other people," Johnson said. "Because not everyone has been in that situation of being in the lead in a major. So I'm pretty confident. And I've been playing really well this week. I'm looking forward going into tomorrow."
McIlroy also had a 67 while playing with Johnson, and while he made six birdies, he saved his round with a number of par putts from the 6-foot range that could easily have dropped him down the leaderboard.
McIlroy, who won the Quail Hollow Championship this year by closing with a 62, is coming off a memorable major of his own. He opened with a 63 at St. Andrews, got knocked sideways in the wind with an 80 in the second round, and rallied to tie for third.
Is he ready at age 21 to become the youngest major champion since John McDermott was 20 when he won the 1911 U.S. Open?
What's too young anymore?
"The players are just getting so much better at a younger age," McIlroy said. "Their confidence is so high that they can take on shots that other guys just might not have thought they could. I don't know if that's because most of the guys swing it better out here now or whatever, but it does seem the younger guys are coming out and they're just a lot better and more ready to win."
And there are a lot of them, especially at Whistling Straits.
Jason Day, the 22-year-old Australian who won in Dallas this year, had a 66 and was in the group at 9-under 207 that included Martin Kaymer, the 25-year-old from Germany who has top 10s in the last two majors. Kaymer shot 67.
The only player among the top six not in his 20s was the biggest surprise of all -- Liang Wenchong, a 32-year-old from China who set the course record at Whistling Straits with a 64. He didn't start playing the game until he was 15.
Some of these guys already were dreaming of winning majors at that age.
As for Tiger Woods? His only hope is to shoot his best round of his strange season on Sunday and try to earn a Ryder Cup berth.
Woods scrambled brilliantly in the morning to finish off the second round with a 70 and get within five shots, then opened the third round by stuffing his first couple of iron shots. He couldn't make a birdie, however, and had to rally for a 72 on a day when the average score was 71 in soft conditions and relative calm.
Woods wound up 10 shots behind. He likely will need to finish at least in seventh place alone to make the Ryder Cup team.
"I just want to play a good round and see where that puts me," Woods said.
Five of the last six major champions had never won one before, the exception Phil Mickelson this year at the Masters. To see so much inexperience at the top -- not to mention youth -- is not nearly as surprising in a year in which 27-year-old Louis Oosthuizen won the British Open at St. Andrews, and 30-year-old Graeme McDowell of Northern Ireland won at Pebble Beach.
"I guess you could say the younger guys are starting to play a lot better," Johnson said. "We're starting to contend in majors. We're definitely moving forward, that's for sure."
Major championship experience is lurking.
Former Masters champion Zach Johnson shot a 69 and was in a group at 8-under 208 that included former U.S. Open champion Jim Furyk (70) and former PGA champion Steve Elkington (67).
The course was such a pushover that 19 players shot in the 60s. But at least everyone could see, ending two days of fog delays that forced some to play 30 holes on Saturday.
Watney has only two PGA Tour victories, the most recent last year at Torrey Pines, and while he has top 10s in two majors this year, he was never a factor in either one.
It sure didn't look that way Saturday, when he came out firing.
He birdied the first two holes with wedges inside 6 feet to jump past 36-hole leader Matt Kuchar, who didn't make a birdie until the 16th hole and shot a 73 to fall six shots behind. Watney then ran off three straight birdies starting on the par-5 fifth, perhaps his best shot a 5-iron to 12 feet on the tricky par-3 seventh.
Mickelson continued to hit tee shots all over the course, and it finally caught up with him in a round of 73 that put him in a tie for 48th.
Woods almost certainly will end a second straight year without a major.
Even giving himself a chance on Saturday was a minor miracle. He hit only five fairways, putted for birdie on only half of his holes and made every hole an adventure. Standing behind the 17th green, where Woods hit a 4-iron right at the flag on the dangerous left side of the green for birdie, caddie Steve Williams shook his head.
"In my 32 years as a caddie, this is the greatest 70 I've ever seen," Williams said. Before heading to the 18th tee, he added, "And if he bogeys the last hole, it will be the greatest 71 I've ever seen."
Woods made par, but only after hitting a huge cut with a 5-wood from a bunker that was sunken below the fairway, leaving his 60-foot birdie putt inches short. "I'm right back in the ball game," Woods said, who finished his second round at 3-under 141, only five shots back.
As has been the case for so much of the year, however, no one can ever tell who is going to show up.
Two hours after he finished his second round with 25 putts, he missed birdie putts from inside 10 feet on the opening two holes and soon was spiraling down the leaderboard.
"I didn't make any putts early when I stuffed them in there," he said, "and didn't get any momentum."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SHEBOYGAN, Wis. -- Martin Kaymer's name is etched on the side of the Wanamaker Trophy.
A far more compelling image from this PGA Championship was Dustin Johnson taking one last look at his scorecard Sunday before turning over his pencil to use the eraser on his final hole.
The 5 turned into a 7.
It kept Johnson out of a playoff, which Kaymer won over Bubba Watson, all because of a tiny patch of sand well right of the 18th fairway where Johnson gently placed his 4-iron behind the ball, unaware that it was part of a bunker.
"It never crossed my mind that I was in a sand trap," Johnson said.
The resulting two-stroke penalty for grounding his club in a bunker -- outside the ropes, where thousands of fans had been walking all week -- turned a thrilling final hour into a controversial finish that will be debated for years.
Whistling Straits has so many bunkers -- more than 1,000 -- that not even architect Pete Dye can count them all. Perhaps it was only fitting that one of them played such a pivotal role in the season's final major.
"It was very tough to see what is a bunker and what is not a bunker," said Kaymer, who won the three-hole playoff with a tap-in bogey. "I think it's very sad he got two penalty strokes. He played great golf. He's a very nice guy."
Kaymer won his first major in a PGA Championship that will be remembered as much for the guy who tied for fifth.
It was the cruelest end to a major since Roberto de Vicenzo signed for a higher score than he actually made in the 1968 Masters, which kept him out of a playoff against Bob Goalby.
Johnson had no excuses. The peculiar rule about every bunker being treated the same had been posted in the locker room all week. And he offered none when a PGA rules official stopped him walking off the green and said, "We've got an issue."
His first reaction when told he might have grounded his club in a bunker: "What bunker?"
Johnson didn't even bother going to the TV truck to study the replay. He knew he grounded the club. He just didn't know that he was in the edge of a bunker, figuring it was grass that had been killed under so much foot traffic.
"The only worse thing that could have happened was if I had made the putt on that last hole," Johnson said.
Thinking he had a chance to win, Johnson missed a 7-foot par putt on the 18th to seemingly slip into a three-man playoff. Instead, the two-shot penalty turned his 71 into a 73, and instead of going to a playoff for redemption from his U.S. Open meltdown, Johnson tied for fifth and headed home.
As Johnson was leaving the course, Kaymer was coming up clutch again.
The 25-year-old German holed a 15-foot par putt on the 18th hole in regulation for a 2-under 70 to join Watson (68) at 11-under 277. One shot behind in the playoff, Kaymer made another 15-foot putt for birdie on the par-3 17th, then watched Watson implode.
Watson went from the right rough into the water, then over the green into a bunker. His bunker shot hit the flag, and he tapped in for double bogey. Kaymer chipped out after seeing Watson go in the water, and he hit 7-iron to 15 feet for a two-putt bogey.
"I don't realize what happened," Kaymer said. "I just won my first major. I've got goose bumps just talking about it."
Kaymer earned $1.35 million, went to third in the Ryder Cup standings for Europe and moved to a career-best No. 5 in the world.
Watson was only disappointed for a few minutes until learning he had played his way onto the Ryder Cup team.
For Johnson, this might take far longer to recover from than the U.S. Open, where he had a three-shot lead going into the final round, took triple bogey on the second hole and shot an 82.
The final major of the year proved to be the most thrilling over the final hour, even with Tiger Woods long gone before all the excitement began. Woods closed with a 73 and tied for 28th.
Six players had a share of the lead at some point Sunday, and six players were separated by one shot over the final 30 minutes.
That included Rory McIlroy, the 21-year-old from Northern Ireland who was trying to become the youngest major champion in 80 years. He had a 20-foot birdie putt on the final hole to join the clubhouse leaders at 11 under, only for the putt to turn away.
Also one shot behind was former Masters champion Zach Johnson. Both of them needed a birdie on the 500-yard closing hole that only allowed one birdie in the final round.
For all the clutch putts by Kaymer, however, this PGA Championship came down to the bunkers.
Six years ago in the PGA Championship at Whistling Straits, Stuart Appleby was unaware of the rule and assessed a four-shot penalty. Appleby said Sunday night on Twitter that changes are needed for the PGA Championship that returns in 2015 on a course "that has hundreds of pointless bunkers that patrons have to walk through to view players."
"I'm very ... angered that this is the way the 2010 PGA came to an end," he said.
Johnson never disputed that he grounded his club, yet he was no less stunned to realize he was in a bunker. Inside the scoring room, he could be seen erasing the 5 on this scorecard and changing it to a 7.
"There's a lot going on," Johnson said of the commotion on the 18th. "I'm excited I had a putt to win -- or thought I had a putt to win. Walking off ... I think I'm going to a playoff, and I've got a two-stroke penalty."
Dressed in street clothes as he spoke to reporters, Johnson had to watch Watson and Kaymer head for the three-hole playoff, the second in as many trips to Whistling Straits.
Watson, who had overpowered the back nine with his booming tee shots, struck first with a massive strike to just short of the par-4 10th green and a pitch to 4 feet for birdie. Kaymer answered with a 15-foot birdie on the 17th, sending them to the 18th hole.
That's where Watson fell apart, driving into the rough and going after the 18th green from a tough lie. He hit a 6-iron and was posing until it came up woefully short and into the water.
"I made a bad swing. You can't get mad at a bad swing," Watson said. "I wouldn't do anything different. I play to win, not to lay up and finish second."
Lost in the maddening finish was Watney, who had a three-shot lead going into the final round. He took double bogey on the opening hole, lost the lead for good with a tee shot on No. 7 that bounced off the rocks and into Lake Michigan for a triple bogey and closed with an 81, the highest finish by a 54-hole leader at the PGA Championship since it went to stroke play in 1958.
He tied for 18th and cost himself a chance of earning a spot on the Ryder Cup team. Then, he had to endure watching Johnson, with whom he often plays practice rounds, have a chance at his first major taken away by a peculiar local rule.
"I didn't see anything on the golf course, and when the official came up, I was totally shocked," Watney said. "I thought he was coming to me about it, the way my day was going.
"Whether that's fair? I guess they did write it on the sheet," Watney said. "Man, that's a tough call, though."
About all Johnson can take away is how he finished. Three shots behind with six holes to play, he made a spectacular escape from deep rough below the par-5 16th green to 2 feet for birdie, then hit 6-iron to 12 feet for birdie on the 17th.
His tee shot on the 18th sailed to the right and into the gallery. He had no idea how badly that would end up costing him.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- Woody Austin incurred a four-stroke penalty Friday at the PGA Championship after realizing he had 15 clubs in his bag during the second round.
Austin, 49, a four-time winner on the PGA Tour, was in violation of Rule 4-4 for exceeding the 14-club limit. The penalty is two strokes for each hole where the breach occurred, up to a four-stroke limit. Austin added two strokes to his score for the first and second holes and ended up with a 75 to finish at 4 over par, missing the 36-hole cut by 1 shot.
He had forgotten to take a 21-degree hybrid out of his bag but didn't notice it because of the rain cover over his clubs to keep them dry. Austin and his caddie Dave Lawson began the round in the rain.
"It's not his fault; it's my fault as much as his fault," Austin said. "It's both our jobs. It's just one of those things, if it wasn't raining, we would have caught it. But you've got the rain cover over everything and you're worrying about the towels and whatever, so you don't see it.
"But if we would have been on the first tee on a normal day, clubs sitting there, you would have seen it. It's such a bulky club, you wouldn't have missed it. It doesn't have a head cover on it or anything. We would have caught it immediately. But the fact that you have got your clubs completely covered, I never saw it until I dug in there for the 3 iron on No. 3, and there it was."
Austin, who won the Sanderson Farms Championship three weeks ago, shot a first-round 69 and would have made the cut easily without the four-stroke penalty. He did make two birdies on the front side and another on the back nine but his bogey at the 18th ultimately proved costly.
"Can't say I was angry, because it was more, I don't know, it was more of a shock, so you're kind of like pretty bummed," Austin said. "I think after 20 years, you do one stupid thing ... and that's the first time I've ever done something like that. Now all I've got to do is figure out how to get DQ'd."
Among the more famous 14-club rule breaches occurred at the 2001 Open Championship, where after birdieing the first hole of the final round at Royal Lytham (a par-3), Ian Woosnam discovered on the second tee that he had an extra driver in his bag.
The two-stroke penalty incensed him to the point that he threw the extra club into some nearby bushes. Woosnam ended up finishing four strokes behind winner David Duval.
"I remember Ian's deal at the British, so I remembered that it was no more than four shots," Austin said. "I grinded all day, and that bogey on the last hole probably cost me, so technically, I'm even par, but I'm down the road, so that's kind of harsh. ... I could be even par and in the tournament, but instead I'm down the road. So I'm real disappointed."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- The photo session was beginning to drag on just a little too long for Jason Dufner.
It wasn't that he minded posing with his newly won Wanamaker Trophy. But, now, after a conga line of people had taken turns getting their pictures taken with the PGA champion, the tournament's official photographer summoned him up to the 18th green at Oak Hill Country Club.
"Thirty-five more seconds!" the photographer said as he called Dufner and the 27-pound trophy up the steep hill to the green. "The sun is fabulous!"
For a moment, but only a moment, Dufner looked like he was camera'd out. A tiny, pained look crossed his face, but the photographer wasn't having any of it.
"If you didn't win, you don't have to do this," he said.
Good point, especially since Dufner has been waiting for years -- since Aug. 14, 2011, to be exact -- for a chance to redeem himself.
That was the day at the Atlanta Athletic Club that Dufner blew a 5-shot lead with four holes left in his PGA Championship Sunday round. Then he lost to Keegan Bradley in a three-hole playoff. Then he stopped at Krystal to buy some belly bombers for the 135-mile drive back to Auburn, Ala.
"I was probably over what happened in Atlanta, 95 percent of it, by the time we got back home at Auburn," Dufner said.
But the remaining five percent of hurt didn't disappear until Sunday evening at Oak Hill, when his final putt of a half-foot or so fell into the cup.
"You always carry those scars with you," Dufner said. "[Bradley] always jabbed at me a little bit about having one of these [he patted the nearby Wanamaker] in his house, and thanks for giving it to him, and all that stuff. And now I've got one, too."
Moments after that putt dropped and he shook hands with second-place finisher Jim Furyk and hugged his wife Amanda, Dufner looked up, and there was Bradley waiting for him just off the 18th green. Bradley had finished his round about 3½ hours earlier and was on his way to the airport when he decided he had to be there for his friend.
"We turned around, went through a red light," Bradley said. "We were flying to be here."
There was what Dufner called, "a bro hug," followed by Bradley telling him, "I'm proud of you."
Some players never recover from the burn marks of a blown major. Dufner didn't just lose that 2011 PGA Championship. He lost it spectacularly. Until Sunday, he was known best for that defeat, his SEC mixed marriage to Amanda (he's an Auburn grad, she's a Bama grad) and a social phenomena known as "Dufnering." Google away.
And then he shot a 7-under-par 63 on Friday to tie the record for the lowest round in a major. He overcame Furyk's 1-stroke Sunday lead by the fifth hole, fell back into a tie with Furyk on the sixth and then regained it for good at the eighth. From there, Dufner nursed a 2-shot cushion for the victory.
"I've had leads in majors and not pulled through," Dufner said. "I always felt like that was going to make me a better player and more confident the next time that I had a chance. And, for whatever reason today, I felt really comfortable, really calm and felt like I could do it."
If Dufner saw the ghosts of 2011, you'd never know it. He'd be great at impersonating someone in a coma. Only twice Sunday -- when he left a birdie putt short on the par-5 13th, and when he had to do one more photo op -- did you know he even had a pulse.
But the memory of that blown lead in Atlanta served its purpose. According to Amanda, who held a tin of dip for her husband as he finished up his postround winner duties, the 2011 PGA loss "was really important. I think it helped make him the golfer he is today."
The golfer we saw Sunday at Oak Hill has a swing that didn't flinch under the pressure of a major. Dufner hit nine of 14 fairways, stayed out of the shag-carpet rough and kept his mistakes to single digits. Most of the time when Furyk hit a good shot, Dufner hit a better shot.
"It's pretty neat to come back and win a PGA, to be honest with you," Dufner said.
A couple years ago, the Dufners purchased 50 acres of land in Auburn. The framing of the house is going up right now, and, soon, the land will have a distinct Oak Hill flavor.
It makes sense now, but earlier in the week Dufner had given Amanda a handful of acorns that he had collected on the course. And a few days ago, the general manager of the club gave him an oak sapling.
"Now it makes it really special," Amanda said. "Hopefully in 20 or 30 years, we'll be able to tell our kids, 'This is a tree from where your dad won his first major.'"
The victory, as it does to all winners, will change Dufner's life. "But I'm determined that it's not going to change me," he said.
Maybe one thing will change. Maybe Mr. Deadpan will do as the photographer said to do on that 18th green early Sunday evening:
Smile.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
At the Bob May Golf Academy in Las Vegas, TVs are set to highlights from May's epic Sunday duel with Tiger Woods in the 2000 PGA Championship at Valhalla in Louisville, Kentucky.
May, who began teaching full time two years ago after lingering back problems forced him out of tournament golf, uses the footage as a marketing tool for his academy.
But it's also a daily reminder for him and others who come to this facility at the Silverstone Golf Club about one of the most dramatic nine holes in major championship history.
It was one of those "Where were you when it happened?" moments.
Tiger, at the height of his powers after dominating back-to-back wins in majors that summer at the U.S. Open and the Open Championship, was in a veritable game of H-O-R-S-E with a 31-year-old journeyman with no PGA Tour wins.
Shot for shot and birdie for birdie, these two Southern Californians both posted 31 on the back nine, finishing regulation in a tie for the lead at 18 under par.
The ensuing three-hole playoff, which Tiger won by a shot, was a bad encore presentation of what had occurred in the previous two hours.
It took May -- now 45 with a wife and two teenage children -- years to fully grasp what he had accomplished in Valhalla. After the playoff, he was surprised when CBS golf announcers Ken Venturi and Jim Nantz told him that his duel with Tiger on Sunday was the greatest of all time.
Better than Jack Nicklaus and Tom Watson in the 1977 Open Championship at Turnberry? Better than Nicklaus and Isao Aoki at Baltusrol in the 1980 U.S. Open?
May didn't think so.
"The older I get and the more people still talk about it," May said, "the more I realize how special it really was."
After that memorable week at Valhalla, May played in only four more major championships, including the 2001 PGA, where he finished 73rd. Back problems that began in 2000 eventually led to surgery for spinal stenosis and 10 weeks of bed rest in 2004. When he came back on tour in 2006, his best finish was a second at the B.C. Open.
But then he began to lose some of his drive and dedication.
"I lost track of the fitness part of the game as I gained more interests," May said. "I started spending more time with my kids. And obviously the first thing I cut out was working out."
His last full season on the PGA Tour was 2007. Since then he has played mostly on the Web.com Tour, where he will try to regain status through Q-school in the fall.
Though May says he's comfortable if Valhalla goes down as his most enduring legacy in the sport, he believes that he still has a lot to accomplish as a player.
"If I can do it back then, I can do it now," he said. "The only thing that slows me down is my back. As long as it feels good, I can hit the ball as good if not better than I did back in 2000."
If May can still hit the ball as well as he did back at Valhalla in 2000, he should have a very nice resurgence on tour. No one before or since has played as well head-to-head against Tiger when the now-38-year-old and now-14-time major champion was fully healthy and at his best.
In the middle of his Tiger Slam, with major wins by 15 and 8 shots at the U.S. Open and the Open Championship that summer, Tiger was seemingly unbeatable. Yet May wasn't distracted by Tiger's dominance or growing mystique.
"I remember a lot of what happened on Sunday," May said. "The thing I don't remember is what was taking place during all of it. I was so focused on my game and playing golf that I didn't realize what was occurring around us."
When May and Tiger made the turn on Sunday tied for the lead, their easy banter ceased.
"We talked to almost about the 10th fairway," May said. "After that point on, we're running out of holes. It's game on. We kind of both went our own ways and started focusing more."
Before the start of the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational last week at Firestone, Tiger recalled that back nine with May with his own sense of awe and satisfaction.
"It's not too often where you're tied for the lead of a major championship and you go out and shoot 31 on the back nine and lose," Tiger said. "Unfortunately for Bob, that's what happened."
May views the ending at Valhalla a little differently than Tiger.
"There was no loser in this whole thing," he said.
For May, Valhalla was confirmation that he could compete with the best players in the world. In the next week's tour event in Reno, Nevada, he missed getting into a playoff by one shot.
That fall, he was paired with Tiger for the first two rounds at the Disney event.
Still, the two men have never had a chance to speak at length about their famous duel. May believes the ratings would be excellent for a TV sit-down with him and Tiger.
While that conversation might never materialize, the highlights of the event are in the permanent library of golf's most electrifying stories. And one of the best marketing tools for May's academy.
After all these years, it's still difficult for May to adequately put into words what happened that afternoon in Kentucky, because it easily defies explanation. It was pure golf, almost like a fantasy.
So he just watches the footage quietly and appreciatively as he goes about his life trying to teach players of all skill levels. And to digest the realization that for nine holes, he was as good, perhaps, as any player to ever play major championship golf.
May plans to be teaching this week as the PGA Championship is held at Valhalla for the first time since he played there in 2000. But no matter what histrionics transpire over the 72 holes of the year's final major, he and Tiger have earned forever their own special place on the back nine at the Nicklaus-designed course.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- It is 14 years from now. Rory McIlroy is 39. Think of the possibilities.
Has McIlroy won the 15-20 majors that the great Jack Nicklaus predicted he would back in August of 2014? Has Nike's Phil Knight named a grandchild after him? Or a subsidiary? Has his best-selling autobiography, "Rors: Fer Sure," entered its 49th printing?
Or has McIlroy been stuck at 16 major victories, three shy of breaking Nicklaus' record? Has his chronic knee pain caused him to miss another tournament? Has the retirement of his longtime swing coach, Michael Bannon, created issues?
McIlroy is at the brink of greatness. Or near greatness. Or whatever you call what he's doing these days, which is pretty much giving dog commands to the rest of the tournament fields: Sit ... stay ... roll over.
This week, it's the PGA Championship. Before that it was the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational. Before that it was the Open Championship.
The world's No. 1-ranked player is playing like there is no No. 2. He enters Saturday's third round of the PGA Championship 1 shot ahead of Jason Day and Jim Furyk and in prime position to win his fourth career major, his third consecutive tournament and his second consecutive major.
Did I mention he's only 25?
"The last month has been fun," he said, sheepishly.
The last month has been semi-historic. The last month has been dominant. The last month is why we're talking about eight months from now: the 2015 Masters, when McIlroy could go for a career Grand Slam before his 26th birthday.
On Friday he shot a 4-under-par 67 on a rain-softened Valhalla Golf Club course. It wasn't as pretty as his first-round 66, but it did reveal another layer of McIlroy's golf character.
First of all, the Freaky Fridays are gone. Remember those, when McIlroy would follow up a low round with a South Dakota freeway score (75)? Not anymore.
And McIlroy isn't pacing himself. He's aggressively patient. He remembers what happened at Augusta National three years ago, when he had a 4-stroke lead going into the final round -- and shot 80.
"I've went protection mode once in my career and it was the 2011 Masters," he said. "That didn't work out very well. So I said to myself I'll never do that again."
McIlroy lives and learns. He ended his engagement in late May with tennis star Caroline Wozniacki and then won a tournament that week. He immersed himself in the game.
"I guess, what else do I have to do?" he said. "I get up in the morning. I go to the golf course. I go to the gym. It just sort of -- it's just my life at the minute. It obviously works pretty well, so I'm going to keep doing it."
He is playing with the confidence of someone who knows he can win, maybe even should win. He isn't allergic to leads, pressure or trophy presentations.
Look at these numbers: McIlroy is a combined 26-under in his past six rounds of majors. And if he wins the Wanamaker Trophy on Sunday, only two active players would have more career majors than McIlroy: Phil Mickelson (5), Tiger Woods (14).
Fourteen years ago we were talking about Woods the same way we're beginning to talk about McIlroy. The 2000 season is when Woods went Secretariat and won the U.S. Open by 15 shots, when he won the Open Championship by 8 strokes and won the PGA Championship in a playoff.
It was Woods' fifth major victory. And it was won here at Valhalla.
Now it is McIlroy who is seemingly unbeatable -- or, at the very least, unshakable. His peers recognize greatness when they see it.
"There's nothing wrong with his game: putting, chipping, bunker, whatever it is," said Martin Kaymer, who won his second career major in June at Pinehurst. "And he hits it probably 20, 25 yards longer than anyone else. It's impressive. He's definitely the best player in the world ... It's very difficult to beat him."
That becomes the next question: Can McIlroy close out another major? The answer is, "Duh."
"You've seen before when I got on a good run like this, I can sort of keep it going for a little while," he said. "Hopefully, I can keep it [going] longer than I have in the past."
Thirty-six holes remain. That's a half-life in golf. The golf gods could tie the laces of his shoes together and McIlroy could fall face-first. But I doubt it.
"When I'm playing like this, it's obviously very enjoyable and I can't wait to get back out on the course again ... and do the same thing all over again," he said.
McIlroy might not leave here with another silver adult beverage container, but it won't be because he folded like a Medicus. If anything, he'll try to win big. That's who he is now.
And who he still might be 14 years from now.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Long on talent, Rory McIlroy showed in his PGA victory he can scrap with anyone, which is bad news for the PGA field, Ian O'Connor writes.
Rory McIlroy's PGA Championship, his second straight major, is changing the way we perceive pro golf, or at least it should, Gene Wojciechowski writes.
Phil Mickelson might have takeaways from the PGA, but on Sunday night, it was difficult to see through his disappointment at losing out on the elusive major win, Bob Harig writes.
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Rory McIlroy stood over a 10-inch putt in gathering darkness to win the PGA Championship as flashes from thousands of cameras lit up Valhalla like a rock concert.
Everyone wanted to capture a moment from golf's latest coronation.
In his biggest test, McIlroy played his best golf Sunday to win his second straight major and establish himself as golf's next star.
And what a stage.
The final major of 2014 was pure theater with an all-star cast -- Phil Mickelson, Rickie Fowler and Henrik Stenson all with a share of the lead on the back nine. The final two hours were filled with eagles and birdies, with tension and chaos.
McIlroy never had to sweat so much to win one of golf's biggest events. And that's what made this major so much sweeter.
"It is the most satisfying," McIlroy said. "To win it in this fashion and this style, it means a lot. It means that I know that I can do it. I know that I can come from behind. I know that I can mix it up with the best players in the world down the stretch in a major and come out on top."
The final par -- the easiest shot he faced all day -- gave McIlroy a 3-under 68 to outlast Mickelson by a stroke and beat the darkness that threatened to spoil this show. He became only the fourth player in the past century to win four majors at 25 or younger. The others were Tiger Woods, Jack Nicklaus and Bobby Jones, three of the game's greatest players.
McIlroy appears to be on his way to belonging in that group.
"I didn't think in my wildest dreams I'd have a summer like this," said McIlroy, only the seventh player to win the last two majors of the year. "I played the best golf of my life. I really gutted it out today."
McIlroy continued the celebration of his second PGA Championship win by tweeting a photo of his camp:
Flying high with the team after my 4th Major victory!!! NYC here we come!! Thanks for all the support and well wishes pic.twitter.com/zK1q8xnwA8
- Rory Mcilroy (@McIlroyRory) August 11, 2014
But one of the greatest shows on soggy turf came with a most peculiar ending.
Three shots behind as he stood in the 10th fairway, McIlroy got back in the game with a 3-wood from 281 yards into 7 feet for eagle. He took the outright lead when all three of his challengers eventually made bogey, and finally gave himself some breathing room. With a 9-iron from a fairway bunker to 10 feet for birdie on the 17th, he took a two-shot lead going to the par-5 closing hole.
Because of a two-hour rain delay earlier, darkness was falling quickly, and it wasn't certain McIlroy would be able to finish.
McIlroy was allowed to hit his tee shot before Mickelson and Fowler had reached their drives. Both were only two shots behind, still in the game. McIlroy came within a yard of hitting in a hazard right of the fairway.
Then, the PGA of America allowed McIlroy to hit his second shot. Mickelson and Fowler had to stand to the side of the green.
"We were cool with hitting the tee shot," Fowler said. "We weren't expecting the approach shots."
Fowler had a 50-foot eagle attempt to tie for the lead. He was well off the mark and missed the short birdie putt attempt that cost him his third straight runner-up finish in a major. Mickelson was short of the green, and his chip came within inches of dropping for an eagle that would have tied him for the lead.
Mickelson appeared upset that they had to wait to finish the hole -- not standard procedure in a PGA Tour event -- and he made two references in a TV interview that this is the only championship the PGA of America runs all year.
"It didn't affect the outcome of the championship at all, I don't think," Mickelson said. "It's not what we normally do. It's not a big deal either way."
Mickelson closed with a 66 and was runner-up for the ninth time in a major.
Fowler became the first player in history to finish in the top five at all four majors without winning one. He closed with a 68 and tied for third with Stenson, who fell out of a share of the lead by missing a 3-foot par putt on the 14th hole. Stenson shot a 66.
McIlroy hit his second shot into a bunker, and he had to two-putt from 35 feet for the win. He lagged the first one to tap-in range, and the major was his. McIlroy repeatedly pumped his fist before letting out a scream above the gallery that had been treated to a Sunday it won't soon forget.
McIlroy won his first two majors by eight shots at the 2011 U.S. Open and 2012 PGA Championship. Only a month ago, McIlroy took a six-shot lead into the final round of the Open Championship and completed a wire-to-wire win with only a brief scare.
This was different.
"I think I showed a lot of guts out there to get the job done," he said.
It might not have been possible without a 3-wood on the par-5 10th hole. McIlroy watched Fowler make a 30-foot birdie putt ahead of him for the outright lead and knew it was time to get going. He hit his 3-wood lower and further to the left than he wanted, but it turned out perfect.
Once he joined the leaders with a birdie on the 13th, none of the contenders made another birdie the rest of the way until it was too late.
All that was left after an exhausting day of raw emotions was for McIlroy to summon enough energy to hoist the 27-pound Wanamaker Trophy. He crouched before the presentation, trying to collect his thoughts on the past month. Not since Woods in 2008 has anyone won three straight tournaments, and they were big ones -- the Open Championship, a World Golf Championship and the PGA Championship. He played them in a combined 48 under par.
"He's better than everyone else right now," Mickelson said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Andy North explains why the move to push the PGA Championship to May beginning in 2019 is a smart move to avoid competing for ratings with the NFL. (1:28)
CHARLOTTE -- For the first time since the modern major championships became entrenched more than 50 years ago, there will be a permanent change to their order, with the PGA Championship moving from its traditional August date to May.
PGA of America CEO Pete Bevacqua announced the long-discussed move Tuesday during a news conference at Quail Hollow, where the 99th PGA Championship begins Thursday.
As part of the change, the Players Championship -- the PGA Tour's flagship event played at tour headquarters in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida -- will move back to March from its May date that it has held for the last 11 years. The Players had been contested two weeks prior to the Masters for many years prior to moving in 2007.
"We are doing this primarily for three reasons," Bevacqua said. "It's in the best interest of the PGA Championship; we feel it's in the best interests of the players who play the PGA Tour and the PGA championships around the world; and maybe most importantly for our organization, it makes the most sense to our members."
Jordan Spieth looks to close out the career Grand Slam this week at the PGA Championship. Rory McIlroy just might be the best man to stop Spieth from becoming the sixth man to achieve that feat.
There will be so much Grand Slam discussion this week, fans will think they tuned into the World Series. So what should we expect from Jordan Spieth as he begins his quest for golfing immortality at the PGA Championship?
The major winners from 2017 will be grouped together during the first two rounds of the PGA Championship.
The 2019 PGA, already scheduled for Bethpage Black on Long Island, will be the first played in May since 1949. It will also be the first time that the order of the Masters, U.S. Open, The Open and the PGA Championship will have been altered since 1971, when the PGA was played in February in order to avoid the Florida summer.
From 1953 through this year (except 1971), the PGA's dates fell in either July or August, with the Masters and U.S. Open being the first two majors.
"I want to stress that we expect these moves will help us to grow our fan base as we move forward with these changes, and we think that's very important and, as Pete said, in the best interests of this game," said Jay Monahan, commissioner of the PGA Tour.
By moving the PGA out of August, the PGA Tour will be allowed to conclude its regular season earlier, likely by Labor Day.
How that affects the FedEx Cup playoff events as well as tournaments throughout the schedule is still be determined.
Something has to give with the World Golf Championships events, for example, that are played in March in order to accommodate the Players. And to finish the regular season by Labor Day -- roughly three weeks earlier -- some other tournaments will be impacted.
"There are a number of dominoes and there are a number of other decisions we need to make, and as you can imagine there's a fair amount of complexity with in that and we have a number of constituents to work with," Monahan said. "When we have more specifics, we'll come back and make those announcements. We are just not far enough along in our process to be able to say definitively where we are."
Bevacqua said the PGA would not be taking the Players date on Mother's Day weekend and would in most years be played one weekend prior to Memorial Day weekend. That means it will not be played in consecutive weeks with Jack Nicklaus' Memorial Tournament, but could have an impact on the Byron Nelson and Colonial tournaments that are traditionally played in consecutive weeks.
That is also the time frame for the European Tour's flagship event, which is the BMW PGA Championship. The European Tour has already reacted by moving the tournament to September starting in 2019.
"Significant changes to the global golfing calendar have given us the opportunity to move the BMW PGA Championship to a more favorable date from 2019 onwards," said Keith Pelley, the CEO of the European Tour. "This is a new chapter for the event but we expect similar interest in autumn."
Perhaps the biggest risk for the PGA of America is agronomical concerns about golf courses hosting a major in May. Bethpage, Oak Hill and Trump Bedminister are just three Northeast courses already awarded the tournament that might struggle with a spring date.
Others already awarded are Harding Park (San Francisco), and Kiawah (South Carolina).
"We are very comfortable the May date works for all of those locations," Bevacqua said. "When you think about the major metropolitan New York area, we did a long analysis of the Bethpages and Baltusrols and other great home sites for the PGA Championship. We actually feel -- from our side, from those championships sites, the PGA professionals, the club, the superintendent -- they feel the conditioning of the golf courses are actually better in late May than in the August months.
"In terms of other areas of the country, we are taking nothing off the table at this time. Weather patterns change, grasses become more resilient and we'll continue to have great conversations with those clubs and courses that we have historically gone to in all other regions of the country."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
