Ajaccio have escaped dismissal from the playoffs for promotion to Ligue 1 but will be deprived of home advantage for the first leg of the final.
Olivier Pantaloni's Ligue 2 side set up a clash with top-flight Toulouse by beating Le Havre on penalties on Sunday, in an ill-tempered clash in which both teams had two players sent off.
Afterwards, Le Havre filed a complaint with the French league (LFP) claiming they should be awarded the game after Pantaloni, who had also been dismissed, reappeared pitchside ahead of the shoot-out.
An LFP statement on Tuesday read: "The LFP competitions commission has rejected Le Havre's claim made after the AC Ajaccio-HAC match, which sought to have the match which they lost on penalties to AC Ajaccio awarded to HAC [Le Havre].
"The presence beside the pitch before the penalty shootout of ACA [Ajaccio] coach Olivier Pantaloni, even though he had been sent off by the referee, does not constitute a reason to invalidate the result of the match.
"Articles 540 to 546 of the LFP competition rules stipulate clearly that the forfeit of a match is effective only if a suspended player appears in the match.''
That was not the end of the matter for Ajaccio, though, as events off the field brought stern sanctions.
The match was originally scheduled for Friday but was postponed after Le Havre's team bus was attacked by Ajaccio supporters.
There were also pitch invasions and racist chanting at the rescheduled game and the LFP's statement continued: "In view of the gravity of these facts, the disciplinary commission has decided to place the matter under investigation and impose a provisional closure of the Stade Francois-Coty.
"The match between AC Ajaccio and Toulouse FC will take place on Wednesday behind closed doors in a stadium to be determined in the coming hours by the LFP.''
Pantaloni and defender Faiz Selemani were also suspended by the disciplinary commission and will join Mathieu Coutadeur and Joris Sainati in missing the first leg against Toulouse.
Coutadeur sparked the dramatic conclusion to the Le Havre match when he barged referee Frank Schneider inside the penalty area in extra time, and was punished with a red card and the award of a spot kick.
Jean-Philippe Mateta scored to put Le Havre 2-1 up and was immediately confronted by Joris Sainati, sparking a mass brawl.
Sainati, Mateta and Le Havre's Denys Bain were sent off, while Selemani's role in the fracas was punished after the LFP reviewed video footage.
Mady Camara scored Ajaccio's equaliser in the sixth minute of stoppage time at the end of extra time, and Jean-Louis Leca's save from Zinedine Ferhat proved decisive in the shootout.
The LFP later confirmed that the match will be played in Montpellier.
A statement from the governing body read: "The first match of Ligue 1 playoff final will take place at the Stade de la Mosson.
"Following the decision of the Disciplinary Committee of the LFP on Tuesday, May 22, the match between AC Ajaccio - Toulouse FC will take place Wednesday, May 23 at 20:45 behind closed doors at the Stade de la Mosson in Montpellier.''
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Leonardo Bonucci is the right man to be AC Milan captain, team manager Christian Abbiati has said.
Bonucci, who arrived in a surprise summer move from Serie A champions Juventus, led the Rossoneri in their 2-1 friendly defeat to Real Betis on Wednesday.
He is set to be officially named as the new Milan captain after coach Vincenzo Montella pledged to give responsibility to one of his 10 new signings.
And Abbiati told Mediaset television: "This armband has a lot of significance and comes with a lot of responsibility.
"Leo has got the right personality and experience to wear it. This is how the club have decided -- they wanted to make one of the new arrivals captain."
Bonucci is set to make his first competitive appearance for Milan in the first leg of their Europa League playoff against Shkendija next week.
The 30-year-old was ineligible for Milan's 3-0 aggregate win over Universitatea Craiova in the previous round because his transfer was not completed in time.
Bonucci had been destined to become Juve's new captain, with Claudio Marchisio now tipped to take the role.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AC Milan boss Gennaro Gattuso highlighted his side's defensive performance in their 1-0 win over Ludogorets in the Europa League on Thursday, adding the Rossoneri players were no longer "running in all different directions."
Milan cruised to the comfortable victory in their round-of-32 second-leg tie at the San Siro, and the legendary midfielder was pleased with the direction in which his team is heading.
"I am happy we kept a clean sheet, as that's something I was focusing on in training lately," Gattuso told Sky Sport Italia.
"It's good that nobody had a cramp after 90 minutes, but it's about attitude too. I am very, very happy with the growth of the team and those who haven't played as much and ensured they were ready when called.
"We have to take it one game at a time, prepare for a very difficult match against Roma on Sunday. It's true Shakhtar Donetsk hadn't played for two months due to the winter break, but Roma dominated them for 45 minutes [in Champions League play on Wednesday].
"Andre Silva did what we asked. He didn't have the finish, but did everything else. Patrick Cutrone worked in a role that is not really his, but he can do and we'll look at that again in future.
"When you work on defence in training, players do sulk a bit, as did I when I was a player, but the fewer goals we concede, the more eager they are to work on defending. We are improving, we no longer have players running in all different directions, we close down the ball more. We're getting better, but not there yet."
Milan director Massimiliano Mirabelli recently said he couldn't see a future without Gattuso as manager.
Asked about that future, the former Italy international said: "You have to ask the club that. I always give the same answers, because it's what I believe. It is a great honour for me to be the Milan coach.
"It's a lot of pressure and responsibility too, but I like that. I am eternally grateful to Mirabelli and Fassone for giving me this opportunity and I hope it continues."
Fabio Borini scored the goal in Thursday's win, and he told reporters after the match he wants to put pressure on his boss to include him in the squad.
"We knew Ludogorets would start very strong, it was important not to concede and we also scored a goal that gave us more confidence," the versatile forward told Sky Sport Italia.
"I do everything to make it difficult for the coach to leave me out, then we'll see what happens."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AC Milan are to lose their place in next season's Europa League as UEFA remains unhappy with their finances, according to a report in the New York Times.
Last week it was announced that Milan could be barred from European competition for breaching financial fair play (FFP) rules after their case was referred to the adjudicatory chamber of UEFA's club financial control body.
The report states that it has been recommended that Milan are removed from the Europa League, which would mean Atalanta take their place in the group stage while Fiorentina -- who finished eighth last season -- would then be entered in the second qualifying round.
Milan have been under UEFA's microscope ever since Chinese investors Rossoneri Sport bought them for more than £600 million in April 2017, with the scrutiny increasing when they spent more than £200m on players last summer.
Owner Yonghong Li has until Monday to inject a further €10 million into the Serie A club to cover operating costs or risk defaulting on a €303 million loan from Elliott Management.
He then has just four more months to find the funds to repay that loan fully, or risk losing control of the Italian club he purchased just over a year ago from Silvio Berlusconi's Fininvest group.
A decision from UEFA is expected on June 7, but it could arrive as late as June 22.
A source from Fiorentina confirmed to ESPN that they are currently planning their summer on two fronts in view of a possible admission into the Europa League second qualifying round, with the first legs on July 26.
Milan's general manager Marco Fassone says he was "surprised and very disappointed" by UEFA's decision to refer them to their adjudicatory chamber, putting them at risk of becoming the first club from one of Europe's top five leagues to be excluded from Europe due to FFP.
Forward Fabio Borini, one of those 11 new arrivals last year, insists he would not quit the club if they are excluded.
"As far as I am concerned, no [I wouldn't leave]," he told La Gazzetta dello Sport when asked if there would be an exodus of players. "In general, I don't think so. It could be a situation which would unite us even more and then, sorry, but where would there be an exodus to? We're at Milan.
"This is a club with history, and it is a family. It's got a past with an enormous profile and a staff who take care of their players. You know that they like you, and I only ever had that feeling here and at Liverpool."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AC Milan have confirmed the signings of Pepe Reina and Ivan Strinic on free transfers from Napoli and Sampdoria respectively.
The Rossoneri, who have appealed a decision by UEFA to exclude them from next season's Europa League, announced the two new arrivals on their website on Monday, confirming both the Spanish goalkeeper and Croatian defender have signed three-year contracts.
"Pepe Reina is an experienced goalkeeper and was a valid opponent for AC Milan, especially in his spell at Liverpool," a club statement said. "He was in the Reds' starting XI in Athens when we won our memorable seventh Champions League and now he will be contributing to the Rossoneri's race for a European spot.
"In Serie A he has already started in more than 100 games and his international experience speaks for itself. A man and player that can surely improve AC Milan and be of great help to Rino Gattuso.
"Ivan Strinic is making a positive impression at the Russia 2018 World Cup, starting for an impressive Croatia. After a 2017-18 made of ups and downs at Sampdoria, this new AC Milan adventure is an opportunity to bounce back. A solid player, always attentive in defence, Ivan has also good technique.
"Two important signings, who bring added value to the Rossoneri squad. Welcome, Pepe and Ivan!"
Ufficiale: @PReina25 e Strinic sono rossoneri 👉🏻 https://t.co/rFG5nw6jUyOfficial: Reina and Strinic are Rossoneri 👉🏻 https://t.co/UCPu1PZ484#weareacmilan 🔴⚫ pic.twitter.com/YlXQ6GZGhW

Milan are also close to completing the signing of Alen Halilovic, who underwent a medical last week, with the Italian club's general manager Marco Fassone branding the former Barcelona midfielder an "opportunity" with "unbelievable talent."
In a Q&A session on the Serie A club's website, Fassone also allayed fears that they would be selling key players, such as Leonardo Bonucci, in the wake of UEFA's decision.
"Leo is our captain, he's a strength and we're definitely not discussing his outgoing: I hope he will stay with us for a long time," Fassone said. "Romagnoli's renewal? He married AC Milan, he wants to stay here and win.
"With [Patrick] Cutrone there is much more than a handshake, we will soon confirm that he is going to stay with us for a long time. We are foreseeing three quality signings for the focal points of the pitch, it will be a market of arrivals and departures.
"We have enough money, for now, Mister Li [Yonghong] has never failed to give us everything."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Mina Rzouki, Paolo Bandini and Gab Marcotti discuss Gigio Donnarumma's rise to prominence and what lies ahead for the Italian goalkeeper. (5:28)
Paolo Maldini, who returned to AC Milan as sporting strategy and development director in the summer, has said he is not surprised that the club recorded a €126 million operating loss for 2017-18.
La Gazzetta dello Sport reported the figures from Milan's accounts, revealed on Friday and due to be approved at their Annual General Meeting later this month.
The figures showed that expenses had risen 22.3 percent during the first and only full year of ownership by Chinese businessman Li Yonghong.
Li relinquished control in the summer when he failed to meet a deadline for the repayment of a loan, with the Elliott Group taking charge of a club whose operating loss has grown by €53 million from the final year of Silvio Berlusconi's reign.
Milan committed more than €200 million to signing new players last summer although some of that is not reflected on the current balance sheet, with some payments postponed to future years.
"I'm not the right person to ask about this, but certainly what's emerged from the balance sheet is not a surprise," Maldini told reporters.
Milan missed out on Champions League qualification last season and also faced exclusion from the Europa League after UEFA imposed sanctions for breaching financial fair play rules.
However, the sanctions were overturned on appeal by the Court of Arbitration for Sport.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Gonzalo Higuain lived out a nightmare at the San Siro, missing a penalty and seeing red in Milan's loss to his former side, Juventus. (2:51)
AC Milan president Paolo Scaroni said he doesn't have Antonio Conte's phone number, amid reports the former Chelsea boss could replace Gennaro Gattuso.
Gattuso was installed as manager midway through the previous campaign following the sacking of Vincenzo Montella. But, with a change of ownership taking place this summer, there have been constant question marks over the 2006 World Cup winner's long-term future.
Conte, a three-time Serie A winner with Juventus who is out of work after leaving Chelsea at the end of last season, is among the suggested replacements. However, Scaroni rejected any notion of the 49-year-old taking over in the near future.
ESPN has reached an exclusive, multi-year rights agreement in the United States for Italy's Serie A TIM, one of the world's top soccer leagues. The agreement will bring more than 340 matches per season to ESPN+ | 
Schedule
Roma beat Lazio, but the derby doesn't end, it merely pauses. Because like the city that birthed both clubs, it is eternal, reports Wright Thompson.
Get the latest edition of The Serie Awesome Podcast, as the likes of Gab Marcotti, Mina Rzouki and Paolo Bandini discuss what is happening in Serie A.

"Maybe they haven't told me, but I've never heard him mentioned by anyone," Scaroni told Gazzetta dello Sport when asked if he had sought Conte out. "I don't even have his mobile number."
Following Milan's last-gasp derby defeat to Inter on Oct. 21, the Rossoneri won the subsequent three Serie A matches before losing 2-0 at home to Juventus, which has left them fifth in the table.
And Scaroni said that Gattuso's future will be decided by results on the pitch, which he is happy with -- though he added that the 2-1 home defeat to Real Betis in the Europa League did sting.
"[Gattuso's future] depends on results, which so far have been positive," he said. "He is doing better that the manager who preceded him.
"The squad has his fight -- even if, after Milan-Betis, I was in tears."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Julien Laurens explains why crashing out of the Europa League group stage could put AC Milan in Financial Fair Play trouble. (1:26)
AC Milan have been fined €12 million by UEFA and threatened with a one-season ban from European competition for breaking financial fair play (FFP) rules.
UEFA said the ban will be activated if Milan fail to break even on football-related business by June 2021. If Milan fail to comply, they will be banned for the next UEFA competition they qualify for in either of the 2022-23 or 2023-24 seasons.
The decision was announced the day after Milan were knocked out of the Europa League in the group stage, and the €12m fine will be deducted from this season's prize money.
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

The fine is one of the biggest imposed by UEFA since FFP sanctions began in 2014, when Manchester City and Paris Saint-Germain were withheld €20m from their Champions League prize money.
UEFA originally banned Milan from the Europa League in June for violations of rules monitoring spending on player transfers and wages up to 2017. The club also spent heavily in the transfer market prior to the 2017-18 season.
They were reinstated within weeks by the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), which sent the case back to UEFA for a fairer punishment.
The court said an immediate ban had been too harsh given the club's new business plan after a takeover by U.S.-based hedge fund Elliott Management.
Elliott took control of Milan in June after former owner Li Yonghong missed a deadline to repay part of a loan worth more than €300m from the hedge fund. Elliott repossessed the holding company in Luxembourg that Li used to buy Milan.
For the 2017-18 season, Milan spent more than €200m on new players, despite questions over the financial stability of the Chinese-led consortium that paid over €700m to buy the club from former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi in April 2017.
Milan's finances could improve by playing in the Champions League for the first time since the 2013-14 season. They are currently fourth in Serie A, which would be enough to qualify for next season's competition and earn prize money of at least €40m.
However, a further UEFA punishment was limiting Milan to 21 senior players -- instead of 25 -- in their squad for the next two seasons of Champions League or Europa League football.
Milan can appeal the punishments to CAS.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Misfiring striker Sergi Guardiola could soon leave Adelaide United to return to Spain.
Guardiola, on loan to the A-League club from Spain's Granada, has been linked to a return to his homeland and second division outfit Real Murcia.
"Talks are ongoing but nothing is finalised yet," Adelaide's general manager of football Ante Kovacevic told News Corp.
Guardiola arrived in Adelaide amid much fanfare but underwhelming form led to him starting the past two games from the bench -- he's scored three goals in 14 games for the battling defending champions.
The ninth-placed Reds, winners twice in 16 games this season, have scored only 12 goals -- the fewest of any A-League side.

Misfiring striker Sergi Guardiola could soon leave Adelaide United to return to Spain.
Guardiola, on loan to the A-League club from Spain's Granada, has been linked to a return to his homeland and second division outfit Real Murcia.
"Talks are ongoing but nothing is finalised yet," Adelaide's general manager of football Ante Kovacevic told News Corp.
Guardiola arrived in Adelaide amid much fanfare but underwhelming form led to him starting the past two games from the bench -- he's scored three goals in 14 games for the battling defending champions.
The ninth-placed Reds, winners twice in 16 games this season, have scored only 12 goals -- the fewest of any A-League side.

Guardiola, on loan to the A-League club from Spain's Granada, has been linked to a return to his homeland and second division outfit Real Murcia.
"Talks are ongoing but nothing is finalised yet," Adelaide's general manager of football Ante Kovacevic told News Corp.
Guardiola arrived in Adelaide amid much fanfare but underwhelming form led to him starting the past two games from the bench -- he's scored three goals in 14 games for the battling defending champions.
The ninth-placed Reds, winners twice in 16 games this season, have scored only 12 goals -- the fewest of any A-League side.

"Talks are ongoing but nothing is finalised yet," Adelaide's general manager of football Ante Kovacevic told News Corp.
Guardiola arrived in Adelaide amid much fanfare but underwhelming form led to him starting the past two games from the bench -- he's scored three goals in 14 games for the battling defending champions.
The ninth-placed Reds, winners twice in 16 games this season, have scored only 12 goals -- the fewest of any A-League side.

Guardiola arrived in Adelaide amid much fanfare but underwhelming form led to him starting the past two games from the bench -- he's scored three goals in 14 games for the battling defending champions.
The ninth-placed Reds, winners twice in 16 games this season, have scored only 12 goals -- the fewest of any A-League side.

The ninth-placed Reds, winners twice in 16 games this season, have scored only 12 goals -- the fewest of any A-League side.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Philippines, North Korea and Yemen earned the final three qualification places for next year's Asian Cup on Tuesday.
Philippines beat Tajikistan 2-1 in Manila to secure their spot, a result that also meant Yemen qualified before they even took the pitch against Nepal.
Needing a draw to qualify, Philippines -- managed by former United States international Thomas Dooley -- fell behind in the 64th minute as Ahktam Nazarov converted a penalty.
But Kevin Ingreso equalised with a header 10 minutes later, before Phil Younghusband scored the winner from the penalty spot in stoppage time to help Philippines qualify for the Asian Cup for the first time.
Yemen, who have played their home games in Qatar because of the ongoing conflict in the country, will make their debut at the continental tournament. South Yemen played at the 1976 event.
North Korea qualified for the fifth time by beating Hong Kong 2-0 at Kim Il Sung Stadium in Pyongyang.
The 2019 Asian Cup, scheduled to be played in January in the United Arab Emirates, will have an expanded 24-team field, eight more than the previous tournament.
Already qualified along with the hosts are: Australia, Bahrain, China, India, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Syria, Thailand, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Vietnam.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
After four matches of the group stages in Group A of the AFC Asian Cup, all four teams are in with a chance of making the round of 16.
Thailand gave themselves a lifeline with a 1-0 win against Bahrain, while hosts UAE's 2-0 win meant India were denied an opportunity to put themselves into the second round. UAE now lead the group, but aren't yet through. So, what are India's chances of qualifying, and what do they need to do against Bahrain in their last match in Sharjah on January 14?
Also read
-Jhingan stands tall as poor finishing lets India down vs UAE
-India player ratings: Thapa shines, Anas 3/10 vs UAE
They are through if they win, as it takes them to six points. They will also be assured of a finish in the top two of the group, with UAE (four points) meeting Thailand (three points) in Al Ain at the same time.
If Thailand hold UAE to a draw, or beat them, India will finish top of the group, as head-to-head is the first tiebreaker between two points on level points, which is where India and Thailand would find themselves then.
If India draw, then they must hope for UAE to either win or draw against Thailand to assure themselves of progress to the second round. This would leave India on four points, and they would need to at least be level on points with Thailand, who would also be on four points should they draw against UAE. India would then go through as the second-placed team from Group A.
A UAE defeat against Thailand would complicate matters for India, who would then sit third in Group A, and hope to qualify as one of the top four third-place finishers at the end of the group stages.
If India lose, they will definitely not finish in the top two, and they would have to hope for UAE to beat Thailand in order to finish in third place and finish with a chance of going through as one of the best-placed third-placed finishers.
A Thailand win or draw would then condemn India to a last-place finish in their group.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
China and South Korea reached the Asian Cup last-16 knockout round on Friday with wins over the Philippines and Kyrgyzstan, respectively, as holders Australia bounced back to claim their first win of the tournament.
Marcello Lippi's China side negotiated a potentially tricky clash with the Azkals thanks to a pair of high quality strikes from Wu Lei and a late header from Yu Dabao to seal a 3-0 win and guarantee a top-two finish in Group C.
"The victory is, of course, very important, however the team's performance is just as important," said Lippi.
"I hope we can continue in this manner because once you have confidence in yourselves you know you can play against any opponent in Asia."
Wu put China in front five minutes before the break with an instinctive effort from the edge of the area and doubled the lead in the 66th when he volleyed home Hao Junmin's free kick.
Yu then nodded the ball over the line with his first touch after coming off the bench 10 minutes from time when the Philippines failed to clear a corner.
South Korea, meanwhile, had defender Kim Min-jae to thank for their 1-0 victory over Kyrgyzstan which secures their place in the last 16 of the competition.
The Jeonbuk Motors centre-half put Paulo Bento's team in front four minutes before half-time when he headed Hong Chul's corner through the legs of 21-year-old debutant goalkeeper Kutman Kadyrbekov.
South Korea take on China in their final group game on Jan. 16 and, with both nations through to the next round, they will be playing to determine who wins the group.
Earlier on Friday, Australia eased to a 3-0 win over Palestine having lost their opening game of the tournament in Group B to Jordan last weekend.
Jamie Maclaren put the Socceroos in front with a deft header from Tom Rogic's lofted pass after 18 minutes and Awer Mabil doubled the advantage from close range two minutes later.
Substitute Apostolos Giannou added the third in the final minute as Graham Arnold's team ensured they go into next week's meeting with Syria knowing a win will clinch a place in the knockout rounds.
Australia are second with three points, three behind Jordan, who have already reached the last 16, with Syria and Palestine on a point apiece with one game left. The top two in each section qualify plus the four best third-placed teams.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Gurpreet Singh Sandhu smiles sheepishly when reminded of a promise he had made to Sunil Chhetri when the two were doing a short live session on social media from UAE on New Year's Eve. "I wish I could give him the clean sheets I promised. He has already scored two goals. If he scores two more in the next, that would be good," he jokes, when asked if Chhetri had made any promises in return.
Chhetri could have had two against UAE on Thursday night; in fact, he had three presentable chances. A header smacked straight at the keeper from six yards out, a shot from a tight angle that rolled just wide and a free kick from just outside the box that didn't quite dip fast enough.
Could've, should've, would've...but didn't...
Now, they walk into the Bahrain match knowing that they must avoid a loss, at the least, to ensure progress into the round of 16. In terms of their playing style, Bahrain aren't much different from UAE, and hence evaluating India's performance on Thursday night could give a fair idea for what needs sharpening come Monday.
Also read
-Asian Cup Diaries - Chhetri in demand, an Iraqi dream come true
-India player ratings: Thapa shines, Anas 3/10 vs UAE
- AFC Asian Cup Group A scenarios - How India, UAE, Thailand and Bahrain can qualify for round of 16
Coach Stephen Constantine got his team selection right against UAE. Ashique Kuruniyan might be raw but his pace, unpredictability and positioning as striker caused problems in both of India's opening games.
Anirudh Thapa was India's best player against UAE, especially after a slightly indifferent first half against Thailand. His deliveries from the wings or set pieces have also been good. Pranoy Halder's discipline in the middle has allowed Thapa to roam forward and cause trouble further up in midfield.
The defence was perhaps India's weakest link in the match against Thailand, and it was a couple of defensive errors that allowed UAE to score their goals on Thursday as well. They were the only shots the hosts managed on target through the 90 minutes, which also suggests the defence performed their job fairly competently on the whole. It is difficult to see Constantine change anything for the Bahrain game.
India have been guilty of rushing passes. Nobody has summed up that Jekyll-and-Hyde character more than Halder, who has pulled off some terrific interceptions, thrown himself about on the pitch, but often given the ball away softly and allowed himself to be stretched out of position in his eagerness to take the game to the opposition. It is an invariable fallout of having a young team at the tournament, and the occasion probably getting to them a bit (only Chhetri and Sandhu have ever been to the Asian Cup before this, and only the former has the experience of minutes played in the competition).
A little more composure on the ball, especially while playing out through midfield, could settle a lot of nerves early on against Bahrain.
In the two matches played thus far, the only substitute to make an impact has been Jeje Lalpekhlua, though it was much easier for him to do so when India were 3-1 up against Thailand. Against the UAE, Constantine felt that Jeje would have been able to hold the ball up better than Ashique, who dropped wide at the start of the second half. It made India slow and they weren't able to create as many chances as they did in the first 45.
Udanta Singh and Thapa, in the words of Constantine, had "run themselves into the ground" and were replaced by Jackichand Singh and Rowllin Borges, but neither player was able to make enough of an impact on the game. As like-for-like substitutions, though, it did feel like the quality of play had taken a hit after the departure of Singh and Thapa.
If India fall behind Bahrain early, do they have the quality on the bench that can make a difference? An answer to that might be key to India's progress.
Forget scenarios, though. The more you score, the better your chance of winning. So in the end, it could all be about how India take the chances, and half-chances that they seem capable of creating. Putting away the kind of chances they created against the UAE would make the task of a historic qualification pretty straightforward.
At the other end, they will need to iron out the kind of complacent defending that led to the UAE's first goal. Address balls being played in behind, following the run of attackers. They will have to keep tabs against Mohamed Saad Al-Romaihi, the Bahrain centre-forward who harried UAE defenders with both his strength and skills on the opening night and scored the tournament's first goal.
Keep him quiet, and Sandhu might just be able to keep a third of his promise to Chhetri intact, and that could well be good enough, even for second place in the group.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Iran sealed their place in the knockout phase of the Asian Cup on Saturday as Carlos Queiroz's side claimed a 2-0 win over Vietnam, while Iraq also booked their spot in the next round of the continental championship.
Iraq's comfortable 3-0 win over debutants Yemen saw them join Iran in advancing from group D before the pair face off on Wednesday to determine who finishes in top spot in the standings ahead of the Round of 16.
Sardar Azmoun scored twice for the Iranians, who are looking to win the title for the first time since 1976, against a valiant Vietnam in a game in which Queiroz made three changes to the side that won their opener against Yemen.
"I believe that you need to have your entire squad ready to make a contribution at any moment," said Queiroz.
"You can win games with starting line-ups but you win championships with squads. My duty as a coach is to keep the 23 players positive and with a constructive attitude."
Azmoun put Iran ahead seven minutes before the break when he headed home Saman Ghoddos' lofted cutback from close range. The Rubin Kazan forward then put the result beyond doubt in the 69th minute when he held off the Vietnamese defence before slotting into the bottom corner of Dang Van Lam's goal.
Iraq had few problems brushing aside a Yemen side that lost 5-0 to the Iranians in their first game of the tournament.
Muhannad Ali put Srecko Katanec's side in front with 11 minutes on the clock when he danced past several defenders and slammed home the ball from the edge of the area.
Eight minutes later, Besan Rasan teased the Yemeni defence before scoring his side's second goal from distance as Iraq took charge of the game, with Alaa Abbas adding a third in injury time.
In the day's late game, Saudi Arabia notched up their second win in Group E to edge closer to the next round as Juan Antonio Pizzi's side saw off Lebanon.
The 2-0 win means the Saudis will be guaranteed a top-two finish in the group and a place in the round of 16 if Qatar defeat North Korea in their meeting in Al Ain on Sunday.
Fahad Al Muwallad put Pizzi's side in front 12 minutes into the game when he smashed the ball past Lebanon goalkeeper Mehdi Khalil and into the roof of the net.
Hussain Al Mogahwi made his team's second goal midway through the second half when he slid in to nudge Hatan Behebri's perfectly delivered cross over the line from three metres out
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Madagascar and Mauritius moved closer to joining hosts Kenya in next year's African Nations Championship after downing Malawi and Seychelles respectively on Saturday to advance to the second round of qualification.
The two sides have reached the 12-team next stage as they look to represent Southern Africa at the tournament -- which is reserved for players plying their trade in Africa's domestic leagues.
Mauritius advanced 2-1 on aggregate after drawing 1-1 in Saturday's second leg in the Seychelles, with AS Port Louis defender Marco Dorza scoring the decisive opener. Malawi's Flames will have been disappointed to miss out on the continental showpiece after holding Madagascar to a 0-0 draw away in the first leg.
However, it was Les Bareas who advanced when a sole away goal from Nijva Rakotoarimala was enough to take them to the next round.
Three teams will ultimately represent Southern Africa in the tournament, and Madagascar will now have to oust Mozambique to progress while Mauritius need to beat Angola in order to reach the Third Round. The winners of those two double-headers will they play off for the chance to reach Kenya.
In other Southern region second-round ties, the Comoros will square off with Lesotho, Namibia meet Zimbabwe, Botswana face South Africa and Swaziland have been drawn with Zambia. First legs are on July 14th, with the return fixtures taking place a week later on the 21st.
In the preliminary qualifier for the Central-East zone, South Sudan face Somalia on Sunday, with the Bright Star holding a 2-1 advantage after the first leg.
Reigning champions the Democratic Republic of Congo will have to beat neighbours Republic of Congo in a double header in August in order to progress.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Riyad Mahrez scored two stunning goals as former Africa Cup of Nations winners Algeria qualified for next year's tournament on Sunday, while Guinea, Mauritania and the Ivory Coast also sealed their places.
Mahrez struck twice in the opening half hour as Algeria, who won the continental title in 1990, sped into a three-goal lead away against Togo before eventually winning 4-1 to seal top place in Group D -- and book their ticket to Cameroon 2019.
Mauritania qualified for the first time from Group I as they came from a goal down to beat Botswana 2-1 in Nouakchott with Ismael Diakite scoring an 84th minute winner.
Guinea qualified without kicking a ball several hours before their Group H match against the Ivory Coast in Conakry when Rwanda and the Central African Republic drew 2-2 in Kigali.
Guinea then went on to win the group with a 1-1 home draw against the Ivorians, who got the point they needed for qualification when Jean-Michael Seri equalised Mohamed Yattara's early goal for the hosts.
Burkina Faso, Tanzania and Zimbabwe all missed out on a chance to book their berths. Burkina Faso were beaten 2-1 in Angola while captain Willam Jebor scored the only goal as Liberia checked Zimbabwe 1-0 in Monrovia.
Tanzania lost 1-0 away in Lesotho, who won a rare competitive international with a header from tall centre back Nkau Lerotholi.
The 2012 champions Zambia were eliminated from the race in Group K as they went down in Maputo to Mozambique with Reginaldo's 63rd minute goal separating the two teams.
Jordan Ayew scored twice as he and his brother Andre returned to the Ghana team for the first time in a year to help beat Ethiopia 2-0 away in Group F.
The derby between Congo and the Democratic Republic of Congo ended 1-1 in Brazzaville, keeping both sides' chances alive in Group G.
The top two teams in the 12 groups qualify except Group B which includes already-qualified tournament hosts Cameroon, where Morocco have made sure of the lone slot.
Egypt, Madagascar, Senegal and Tunisia all booked their place last month while Mali, Morocco, Nigeria and Uganda were added to the list on Saturday.
The rest of the 24-team line-up will be decided in the final round of qualifying in March.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Some supporters of Argentina third division side Almirante Brown have directed their frustrations over the club's poor run of form by shooting at the club president's house and his son's car.
Almirante Brown, based in the San Justo, Greater Buenos Aires, fell 2-1 at home to San Miguel on Saturday afternoon, their fourth straight loss to drop to the bottom of the Primera B Metropolitana standings.
Shots were fired at the front door of club president Antonio Argento's home and his son's car while a neighbour's car was burnt in the early hours of Sunday morning. No one was injured.
Argento, who has a police car outside his house, told Argentinian TV station 5CN: "Due to the sporting results that the club is getting, we suffered this assault and this is not the solution moving forward. What we need to do for the club to win and to improve is to support and not burn cars and intimidate the neighbours.
"This is a calm neighbourhood and we are not used to these types of incidents. What worries me the most is my family and the material damage that this caused. Had it been my car, it's bad luck but it was one of my neighbours. My son was inside the house when this happened. Unfortunately this is not going to help the club. What these people want is to be managed by someone who thinks like them and who can be constrained and I'm not."
Balearon el auto de Antonio Argento, presidente de Almirante Brown. No hubo heridos. Ocurrió el domingo a la madrugada en San Justo. El directivo habló en @C5N pic.twitter.com/U3QVlHmOZH

Sunday's incident is just another example of how violence continues to plague football in Argentina.
Argento says he is considering stepping down because of what has happened.
"In order to protect my family and my neighbours, I should resign but I'm going to try and help my colleagues so that they can manage the club and so that the club continues," he said. "I will see then what I do next. The club members voted for me to do what I do which is to administer the club and guide it financially. I see the players and coach worried about the sporting results and what we need to do is to support them as much as we can."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NICOSIA, Cyprus -- Cyprus police say two men have been arrested following violent clashes in the stands during a Cypriot Cup quarterfinal match with light injuries for four policemen.
Police said Thursday that officers had to use tear gas to subdue APOEL Nicosia fans, who threw plastic seats at them and let off flares, as they accompanied firefighters trying to put out a fire started in a stadium washroom.
The two arrested men, aged 21 and 37, also suffered minor injuries.
The violence erupted midway through Wednesday's match at host AEL Limassol.
APOEL advanced to the semifinals after a 1-1 draw.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Paris Saint-Germain's Angel Di Maria has said that if Argentina lose another final at a major tournament he will call it quits from international duty.
The 28-year-old admits he thought about retiring along with Lionel Messi earlier this summer and also considered "going to see a psychologist" after a third consecutive final defeat in as many years.
La Albiceleste lost the 2014 FIFA World Cup final to Germany before being beaten by Chile in both the 2015 and centennial 2016 edition of the Copa America.
Di Maria said he found each defeat hard to take and struggled with the same emotional battle that Messi did before his family talked him out of it. The former Manchester United and Real Madrid man said he also considered therapy.
"I did not think Lio [Messi] was coming back ever again," Di Maria told TyC Sports. "These are the things that go through your head in moments like that, I think.
"Losing one final, that happens, but when it happens three times in a row, that is something else entirely. I thought about making the same decision, but my wife and my father were the first in stopping me. It was impossible for me to say, 'I am leaving.'
"I wanted to go see a psychologist, but in the end I didn't go because I knew it was something I had to figure out in my own head," he said.
Di Maria, however, confirmed that another major loss for Argentina will see him end his international career.
El Fideo is still upset by the memory of heartache in Brazil, Chile and most recently, the United States this summer.
#Eliminatorias Buen miércoles para todos y ¡Vamos @Argentina! pic.twitter.com/bTM46hXgi4
- Selección Argentina (@Argentina) October 5, 2016
"If I lose another final, though, that is it. This has happened three times now, but I am optimistic for our chances now. The memories are still tough to swallow, but now I have them less frequently.
"I changed out the No. 11 shirt because that was the one I won the Olympics with [in 2008]. Now, this could be my final World Cup and I would like to have this last chance to put that number on my back."
Di Maria has endured a less than ideal start to the season with PSG and has come in for justified criticism from the French media for his lacklustre performances so far.
He is in Lima on Wednesday with Edgardo Bauza's men in 2018 World Cup qualifying training for matches against Peru and Paraguay this international break. He said he is confident in this edition of the Argentina squad even in the absence of Messi due to injury.
Argentina have won all three games Messi has played but have only one victory in the five games he has missed. They are currently third in the table, a point behind leaders Uruguay.
"We have no other option but to continue fighting and do the best job possible to reach another final," he said about the Oct. 6 and 11 matches. "It isn't easy to get to a final and then winning the title is also difficult. But we are the first to really want it and it is complicated to have to bang your head against the wall three times."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
A female assistant referee has claimed she received a blow to the back of her neck from an angry player following a match between Argentino de Quilmes and Deportivo Merlo in Argentina's Primera C.
According to local media reports, visitors Deportivo Merlo were protesting to referee Jorge Broggi after Tuesday's game following two late goals in their 2-1 defeat when assistant Maria Eugenia Rocco intervened.
Rocco, who reported the incident to the police, said in La Nacion: "When the game ended and before entering the changing rooms, there was an uproar.
"Several Merlo players protested against Jorge Broggi and I intervened. They were protesting against an alleged handball in the opening goal. I told the coach to calm down, that we could talk later. The police then arrived to protect us and I felt a strong blow on the neck. I turned around and I saw the No. 7 jersey, who was walking away.
"I thought the hit was directed at the referee or someone else, but it wasn't because I was alone. He [No. 7] ran and joined his teammates. I couldn't believe that he hit me. I [then] told them [Deportivo Merlo] that No. 7 was sent off for an aggression and they began to tell me that he hadn't done anything. I felt bad but Broggi told me to be calm that he had seen everything and was going to report it.
"You always hear insults and I'm accustomed to that, but a player has never been aggressive toward me. Not even an insult by a player."
Rocco has been an assistant referee with the Argentine FA (AFA) since 2005 and an international since 2008. She worked as an assistant referee at the Olympic Games in Beijing in 2008 and at the London Olympics four years ago, as well as at the Women's World Cups in 2011 and in 2015.
Argentina Referee Association (AAA) chief Federico Beligoy backed up Rocco's account and told La Nacion: "We have presented the relevant report to AFA and we will act on this grave act."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Lionel Messi has suggested he won't get another chance if Argentina fail to win the World Cup in Russia this summer.
The Barcelona forward lost in three straight finals -- two Copa Americas and the 2014 World Cup -- in a three-year span and has not won a trophy with the senior team.
Messi's hat trick at Ecuador in the Albiceleste's 3-1 win in their final qualifier in October earned his country a spot in this summer's World Cup and again underlined the player's importance to his national side.
Messi and his teammates have had a strained relationship with the Argentine media, feeling unfairly criticised, and he told La Cornisa TV: "It's just the feeling that this group of players has. It seems that having reached three straight finals didn't mean anything. Obviously, we depend on results and unfortunately, we reached three finals and we didn't win them.
"A lot was said about us. The criticisms hurt back then. But the demand is going to be there for this group to get it done. We think that if we don't do it, we are going to get a lot more [criticism] and we are not going to have another possibility."
The pressure led Messi to quit, albeit briefly, from international duty in 2016, after Argentina lost to Chile in the Copa America final, his third straight with the national team.
"I've cried many times for lost finals," the five-time Ballon d'Or winner said. "I cried for not being able to fulfill the dream of our nation. My desire is the same as every Argentine, which is to lift the World Cup."
Messi said the 2014 World Cup final defeat to Germany is still an open wound.
"We know how challenging it is to win a World Cup," the 30-year-old said. "To win a World Cup is very difficult and we came so close to achieving that dream. Football is full of surprises, not always the best team wins. I've learned to accept that. I felt we deserved the 2014 World Cup. It was a tough blow. To have been so close, it was painful."
Messi is looking ahead to Russia with optimism, however. In their group, the Albiceleste will face Croatia, Iceland and Nigeria.
"I dream of being in that final, lifting the cup," Messi said. "It's a dream I've always had. Every time a World Cup comes along, the feeling becomes stronger.
"I hope it's a great World Cup for us and that we are able to experience something similar to that of 2014, which was an unforgettable experience for the country, but this time lifting the cup.
"To win a World Cup is not easy. It doesn't happen often. The last time we did things well but due to minor details we didn't get it done. We are very enthusiastic and eager to lift the cup for our country. I hope God helps us and it happens."
Argentina have not won the World Cup since 1986.
"Everywhere in the world they are waiting for Argentina to be champions and for that to happen to me," Messi said. "Nowadays I try to leave to one side everything that is said and that surrounds football, but it's complicated because it's a World Cup and the focus is there.
"There's not long to go and everything happens quickly. I'm lucky to play for things that are very important at Barcelona that make me focus on that and not think too far ahead. But I've seen around the world just how much people want it to be a great World Cup for me and for Argentina.
"Many people desire for me to be champion and that is incredible. I try to live day to day and not think about June but it's incredible how people all over the world want for Argentina to be champion and for me to get it."
Messi's 34 goals in all competitions this season have helped Barcelona remain in contention for a La Liga, Copa del Rey and Champions League Treble. But he admits he is his biggest critic.
"I'm the first one who knows if I've played well or not," he said. "It's not just about goals, whether you play well or not. There have been games where I've scored goals and not played well. Now I try to help the team play more and be less the finisher, in a way less selfish inside the area. I still run as I always did but a different way."
Back in November, the Rosario-born Messi signed a new contract with Barca -- the only club for which he's played -- until June 2021, but he knows one day retirement is inevitable.
"Everyone says it's going to be very difficult and I don't doubt that," he said. "It's difficult to think about not doing the routine that I have now, going to training, playing ... I really don't know what I'm going to do.
"I would like to do the things that I haven't been able to do due to my profession but I don't know if it will be here in Barcelona or in Rosario [Argentina]."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Argentina have cancelled their final World Cup warm-up match against Israel that had been scheduled for Saturday, federation officials and players said on Tuesday.
The game had been a subject of controversy as it was set to be played in the Jerusalem neighborhood of Malha, which is situated on the site of a former Palestinian village destroyed during the war that established Israel 70 years ago.
The move comes in the wake of Palestinian Football Federation chief Jibril Rajoub calling on Arab and Muslim fans to burn photos and T-shirts of Argentina superstar Lionel Messi if he attended the game.
Argentine Football Association vice president Hugo Moyano said threats to the team as they trained in Barcelona were affecting the players' families. On Tuesday, a group of Catalan pro-Palestinian protesters called out the names of the players and asked them not to participate in the "cover-up" of a social conflict. Photos on social media showed an Argentina shirt stained in "blood."
"I think it's a good thing that the match between Argentina and Israel was suspended," Moyano told Radio 10. "The right thing was done; it's not worth it. The stuff that happens in those places, where they kill so many people, as a human being you can't accept that in any way. The players' families were suffering due to the threats."
Argentina striker Gonzalo Higuain told ESPN confirmed reports the game had been cancelled following political pressure and said: "They've finally done the right thing."
The Israel and Argentina federations had yet to formally announce the game's cancellation as of Tuesday night.
Reports in Israel said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had called Argentinian President Mauricio Macri to ask him to persuade the team not to cancel their visit, but Israel Radio quoted an unnamed diplomatic official who said the chances of salvaging the fixture were very slim.
Rajoub wrote to Claudio Tapia, the head of Argentina's FA, last week accusing Israel of using the match as a "political tool."
The match was originally slated to be played in Haifa, but Israeli authorities contributed funding for it to be moved to Jerusalem, angering Palestinians further following U.S. President Donald Trump's recognition of the city as Israel's capital.
Palestinian authorities said in May that more than 50 people were killed by the Israeli military in Palestinian protests along the Gaza border as the U.S. opened its new embassy in Jerusalem.
Palestinians celebrated the game's cancellation. In Gaza, people cheered and in Ramallah in the West Bank, the Palestinian FA issued a statement thanking Messi and his colleagues for cancelling the game, saying: "The Palestinian FA thanks Argentina's players led by star Messi for refusing to be used to serve a non-sporting goal."
"I congratulate Palestine at such a great sport victory and the tough blow to the occupation," Abdel-Salam Haniyeh, member of the Palestinian higher council of youth and sport, wrote on Facebook after news of the cancellation broke.
"We thank all liberals among sport people and all those who stood by us to demand the cancellation of the match between Argentina and the occupation in Jerusalem."
The match at the Teddy Kollek Stadium was to be Argentina's final game before they kick off their World Cup campaign in Russia against Iceland on June 16.
Information from The Associated Press and Reuters was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Argentina Football Association (AFA) president Claudio Tapia has apologised to Israelis for the cancellation of Saturday's international friendly but maintained it was the right decision because of the threatening atmosphere surrounding the match.
The game, Argentina's final warm-up before the World Cup, was to be played in the Jerusalem neighborhood of Malha, which is situated on the site of a former Palestinian village that was destroyed during the war that established Israel 70 years ago.
Palestinian Football Federation chief Jibril Rajoub had accused Israel of playing politics with the game by moving it from its original location in Haifa to Jerusalem and by trying to link it to celebrations surrounding Israel's 70th anniversary.
The cancellation came in the wake of Rajoub calling on Arab and Muslim fans to burn photos and T-shirts of Argentina superstar Lionel Messi if he attended the game.
"Yesterday the decision was taken to not travel and play the friendly game against Israel," Tapia said in Wednesday's news conference in Barcelona, where the team is training. "We apologise to all the Argentines that live in Israel and the Israelis that bought the tickets so fast to watch the Argentina national team.
"We face a reality that has been going on for 70 years. What we've experienced in the last 72 hours, which is public knowledge, the actions, the threats that have occurred, have led us to decide not to travel. My responsibility as president of the Argentina Football Association [AFA] is to look after the health, physical integrity and security of our delegation. I took this decision. I apologise to the Israeli community. It's nothing against them, nothing against the Jewish community, on the contrary."
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called Argentine President Mauricio Macri and urged him to intervene, but to no avail, on Tuesday. And Israel's sports ministry said a "negotiation" about the match was underway, perhaps in hopes of salvaging it, but gave no further details.
"It's unfortunate the [football] knights of Argentina did not withstand the pressure of the Israeli-hating inciters, whose only goal is to harm our basic right to self-defense and bring about the destruction of Israel," said defense minister Avigdor Lieberman. "We will not yield before a pack of anti-Semitic terrorist supporters."
Israeli President Reuven Rivlin said it was a sad morning for Israeli sports fans, including his own grandchildren.
"But there are values that are greater than even Messi," he said. "The politicisation of the Argentine move worries me greatly."
Tapia regrets the game will not go ahead.
"We also apologise to those that were going to take part in an event done for peace," he said.
"There were going to be children from different religions that were going to interact with our players. It was a clear message that football is a universal sport that transcends frontiers, that it has to be understood as a sport, where everything starts and ends on the football pitch, that it has nothing to do with violence.
"We leave the doors open to do some future actions, whether it's from a football standpoint or another sport in Israel or any other country."
Later on Wednesday, a senior official at the Argentine Football Federation said that the national team had received death threats from the Islamic militant group Hamas, which was also a contributing factor to the decision to cancel the match.
The official, who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity due to safety concerns, did not provide evidence or details on the alleged threats.
A Hamas official mocked the reports that Hamas threatened the players, calling them unrealistic and saying they don't deserve a comment. The official also spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to comment on the issue.
Argentina will now remain in Barcelona, where they have been training for the World Cup, until Saturday when they will travel to Russia.
The Albiceleste begin their World Cup campaign against Iceland on June 16.
"All our energy is now on the World Cup," Tapia said.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Lionel Messi's mother, Celia Cuccittini, said her son has been deeply affected by criticism of his performances with Argentina and insists he wants nothing more than to win the World Cup.
Messi had a penalty saved in Argentina's 1-1 draw with Iceland on Saturday, one day after Cristiano Ronaldo had a hat trick in Portugal's 3-3 draw with Spain.
Argentina lost three straight finals at major competitions in a three-year span -- the 2014 World Cup against Germany and the second and third at the Copa America the following two years.
"His aim is to bring the Cup home, to win the World Cup," Cuccittini said in an appearance on El Trece television show "Diario de Mariana." "It's one of his biggest desires. We see him suffer and cry at times.
"He is the first who wants to bring the Cup with him. He more than anyone would give everything for this to be his World Cup."

- Make your daily picks with ESPN FC Match Predictor 2018!
-  World Cup fixtures, results and coverage 
- World Cup LIVE: Follow all the action daily with ESPN
- Mexico trio and Ronaldo make the ESPN team of Round 1
- Lewandowski, Mane, James and Salah and their one-man team limitations
Messi and his teammates have had a strained relationship with the Argentine media and have often felt unfairly criticised.
The pressure led Messi to quit, albeit briefly, from international duty in 2016 after Argentina lost to Chile in the Copa America.
"We suffer from all the criticism that Leo receives," Cuccittini said. "When people say that he doesn't feel it or that he plays for the national team out of obligation, that hurts as a mother and as a family. Luckily, people love him a lot and they transmit that to him and he values this a lot. As a mother, I do, too."
Argentina clinched a spot in the World Cup when Messi had a hat trick in his team's final qualifier, a 3-1 win at Ecuador on Oct. 10.
"I see him much more relaxed, calmer and with more confidence," Cuccittini said. "I wished him a lot of luck. I told him to enjoy himself, to live in the moment and be happy. I told him to do what he knows, to play just as if he was playing when he started out with Grandoli. I see him with expectations. ... All the family here is supporting him."
Cuccittini also said Messi's talent is not only on the pitch.
"Leo is a divine son, a beautiful brother, a better father and an incredible husband," she said. "I love my four children, but I would give anything for this to be his World Cup."
Meanwhile, Argentina defender Gabriel Mercado said Messi is excited about the Group D game against Croatia on Thursday.
"I see Leo well, just like the rest of my teammates, eager to hit back, to do things well in our next game and to work," Mercado said at a news conference in Moscow. "We cannot look back at the game against Iceland. We cannot dwell on it, lamenting what happened.
"The atmosphere in the group is beautiful [and] healthy and we are all enjoying the opportunity that we have. We are aware what we are playing for. All the games are finals and no team gifts you anything. There's no one more determined than us to qualify, to win and to do things well."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Diego Maradona has been appointed coach of Mexican second-division team Dorados, local media reported on Thursday.
The club issued a short video on their social media channels with the messages "Welcome Diego," and "Make it a 10," the Argentina great's shirt number as a player.
Sources told ESPN Mexico on Wednesday that negotiations between Maradona and the club were taking place, but a previous arrangement between the Argentina legend and Belarus side Dynamo Brest remained a sticking point.
¡Bienvenido Diego al Gran Pez! 🐠#HazlaDePez #HazlaDeDiez pic.twitter.com/JeI92ALJcL

Maradona signed a three-year contract to serve as chairman of Dynamo Brest in July following the World Cup, where his antics at Argentina matches raised eyebrows.
Although Dorados, who are based in Sinaloa state in northwest Mexico, gave no further details, Mexican newspapers said Maradona had been hired to replace Francisco Gamez.
Dorados fired Gamez earlier on Thursday after a poor start to the season that brought three points out of a possible 15. They are 13th in the 15-team league, joint bottom of the table.
Maradona, 57, is considered one of the greatest players of all time after a career that peaked in 1986 when he captained Argentina to their second and last World Cup title.
He has had short stints coaching clubs in Argentina and the United Arab Emirates but his longest spell in charge was with Argentina, who he led at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa.
Dorados' goalkeeper, Gaspar Servio, welcomed Maradona's appointment.
"That one of the greatest of all time and the top idol that we have [in Argentina] will coach us gives us pride," Servio, from Argentina, told TyC Sports.
"We are very happy with the experience he will bring. We need someone like Diego. We found out [Thursday] through rumours but it surprised us because still had a coach. I think [Maradona] will take us where we need to go. I hope he is the person that leads us to promotion to the top flight."
Information from Reuters was used in this story.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Arsenal's minority shareholder Alisher Usmanov grew his net worth by nearly $3 billion over the past year to $15.2 billion, according to the latest figures from Forbes, with majority shareholder Stan Kroenke valued at $7.5 billion.
The figures show the combined net worth of Arsenal's two biggest shareholders is more than twice that of Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich, whose assets are valued at $9.1 billion in Forbes' 2017 list of the world's richest men.
Usmanov's wealth is a source of frustration for many Arsenal fans, as the club has refused to tap into the Russian tycoon's vast resources to boost their purchasing power on the transfer market.
Usmanov owns just over 30 percent of Arsenal but has not been given a seat on the board and is being kept at arms length by the club. Kroenke, meanwhile, has drawn the ire of a large portion of the fan base for only taking money out of the club in past years while not using his own wealth to fund transfer spending in the same way Abramovich has done at Chelsea.
Unlike rivals like Chelsea and Manchester City, Arsenal have insisted on running a self-sustaining financial model where they don't spend more money than the club makes. But Arsenal's struggles to compete both on the transfer market and on the pitch have led to increasing calls from fans to give Usmanov more influence over the club's finances.
Usmanov was once listed as the richest man in Russia with a peak net worth of $18.6 billion in 2014, but that dwindled to $12.5 billion last year because of falling metals prices and weak Russian currency.
The Forbes list ranks Usmanov as the 66th richest man in the world, with Abramovich at 139 and Kroenke at 182.
Mexico's telecom tycoon Carlos Slim remains the richest man in football, despite the Real Oviedo owner slipping to No. 6 on the list with a fortune of $54.5 billion. Slim also owns 30 percent of Mexican club Pachuca and 30 percent of Club Leon.
Other notable football investors include Wang Jianlin of China, who owns a stake in Atletico Madrid and is 18th on the list with a net worth of $31.3 billion, while Rennes owner Francois Pinault is just above Usmanov. Hoffenheim owner Dietmar Hopp is No. 140 with $9 billion, while Fulham's Shahid Khan trails behind with a mere $8.2 billion.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Arsenal left-back Nacho Monreal has said he wants to stay at Arsenal for the remainder of his contract despite the imminent arrival of Sead Kolasinac.
Monreal, a regular starter at left-back last season, also excelled at wing-back after manager Arsene Wenger made a formation change.
The 31-year-old will face more competition next season, with the Gunners set to sign Kolasinac on a free transfer from German club Schalke.
But he told Spanish news agency Efe he had no plans to move and praised Wenger for the role he has played in his career.
"I have two more years left on my contract, with an optional third, and the idea is to stay here," Monreal said.
"I played in as many games as anyone at the club last season and I have been made to feel an important squad member.
"I feel very happy at Arsenal and I feel important because Wenger has given me confidence.
"I'm aware that football can change, but I'm happy, I played the majority of games, I've felt important and I've felt good."
Monreal, who was called up by Spain for their games against Colombia and Macedonia, said Arsenal had endured an inconsistent season but added that the FA Cup final win over Chelsea made sure it ended on a high.
"We did not meet our goal of finishing in the top four, but we made up for the disappointing league season by winning the FA Cup and we all leave for the summer feeling good," he added.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ESPN FC's Julien Laurens believes that managing Arsenal is so ingrained in Arsene Wenger he'd be lost without it. (5:33)
Germany coach Joachim Low will be the leading candidate to succeed Arsene Wenger, sources have told ESPN FC, if, as is becoming increasingly likely, the Arsenal manager's 22-year reign ends this summer.
Wenger's grip on his position has weakened significantly in recent weeks, with the team on a run of four successive defeats in all competitions, and sources close to the first-team squad at the Emirates have also told ESPN FC that some senior players have now lost faith in the Frenchman and believe changes are needed in the dressing room and on the training pitch.
Although Wenger's contract as manager is not due to expire until June 2019, having signed a two-year deal after last season's FA Cup final victory over Chelsea, the 68-year-old is losing support within the Arsenal hierarchy.
Monaco coach Leonardo Jardim and Celtic manager Brendan Rodgers have their admirers at the Emirates, but sources have told ESPN FC that Low would be the preferred candidate.
Low, 58, is under contract with the German national football association (DFB) until the end of Euro 2020, but many within the game say he could be tempted to take on the challenge of club management after this summer's World Cup in Russia, where Germany will defend the trophy won four years ago in Brazil.
Having landed the Germany job in 2006 after stepping up from his previous role as Jurgen Klinsmann's assistant with the national team, Low has re-established Die Mannschaft as the powerhouse of world football by winning the World Cup in 2014 and then last year's Confederations Cup in Russia without the majority of the nation's senior players,
But even though he has not managed at the club level since leaving his post as Austria Vienna coach in 2004, Low is regarded as having the credentials -- experience, successful track record and ability to manage star players -- to take charge of a club of Arsenal's stature.
Should Wenger leave Arsenal this summer, the search for his successor will be led by chief executive Ivan Gazidis, who has overseen the appointments in recent months of several key figures behind the scenes.
Sven Mislintat has arrived from Borussia Dortmund as head of recruitment, with former Barcelona director of football Raul Sanllehi coming in as head of football relations.
Huss Fahmy is another Gazidis recruit, arriving at the Emirates last summer as contract negotiator from a previous role with cycling's Team Sky.
But while Gazidis has driven a quiet revolution in the corridors of powers aimed at ensuring a smooth transition when Wenger vacates the manager's office, a source close to one senior player has told ESPN FC that the squad have grown frustrated by the lack of change and evolution in Wenger's department.
"A lot of the players don't want Wenger," the source said. "They are not happy with his tactics and the training.
"The players don't want any particular manager to come in -- some speak about Thierry Henry, Carlo Ancelotti and even Rafa Benitez -- but they are really frustrated.
"A lot of them are also unhappy about the sale of Alexis Sanchez to Manchester United. Alexis could be difficult at times, but the players think it sent the wrong message to sell him to a rival."
But while there is a sense of exasperation among the players about the training methods and the intensity of training at key stages of the week, and also Wenger's inability to connect with modern players as he did with his squad during the club's successful period of the late 1990s and early 2000s, there are some at Arsenal who believe the players have also let themselves and Wenger down.
One source has told ESPN FC that the "finger-pointing" within the squad is down to a lack of players willing to take responsibility and act as leaders, on and off the pitch.
Wenger's fate is not yet sealed, but the Europa League round of 16 tie against AC Milan has become hugely significant now that the team has fallen 13 points adrift of fourth place, and Champions League qualification, in the Premier League.
Any failure to win the Europa League, which carries Champions League qualification as a prize for the winners, would leave Wenger relying on the faith of majority shareholder Stan Kroenke to keep him in a job.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Former Arsenal midfielder Emmanuel Frimpong has blasted Samir Nasri as "an idiot" and told the Telegraph that Arsene Wenger is the best manager a young player can have.
Frimpong, 26, also praised former teammate Cesc Fabregas as "a lovely guy," revealed that Alex Song always ate KFC the day before a game and that Andrey Arshavin didn't care much for training.
He became a cult figure at Arsenal despite a short-lived career that only included six league appearances in the 2011-12 season.
The tough-tackling defensive midfielder recalled how Wenger stayed calm after he was sent off for a needless second booking against Liverpool in a 2-0 loss, but said that incident led to him falling out with Nasri for good.
"When the game ended, we were in the dressing room and I expected Wenger to be really angry," Frimpong said. "He was actually very calm, but for some reason, Nasri came in and he was like: 'We lost the game because of you.' I was a young guy, didn't really know what I was doing, and was devastated. I felt like I'd let everybody down and he was really blaming me, so I really didn't like him.
"He always had a go at me if I gave the ball away in training and even said to me once: 'I could buy you if I want.' To be honest, he probably could have done at the time, but still."
That animosity showed when Nasri returned to the Emirates as a Manchester City player and the two clashed on the pitch with some heated exchanges.
"People never really understand why that [fight] happened but I don't like the guy," Frimpong said. "The reason I don't like him is because he's an idiot. Plain and simple. I would never, ever have respect for him."
Although Frimpong never established himself in Wenger's squad but he praised the manager for being so patient with young players.
"As a young guy, he's the best manager you could ever have," Frimpong said. "I've never come across another manager who's so calm and understanding. He only shouted at me once, when I did something wrong in training after turning up late."
Frimpong, who is currently without a club after stints in the Swedish and Cypriot leagues, had better things to say about other teammates.
"Fabregas was such a lovely guy," he said. "When I got moved to the first team, he said, 'Frimpong, you've been promoted, well done!' It was such a nice touch. He was a very, very lovely guy.
"Then there was Song, who used to go to KFC before every home game. On the bus to the team hotel the night before the game, he would be eating chicken nuggets.
"Andrey Arshavin was the worst trainer, always laboured, very relaxed. He was terrible in training but very good on the day of the game."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Petr Cech has said Arsenal are making too many mistakes in away matches but is struggling to pinpoint the reason behind their slump on the road.
Arsenal lost 2-1 at Newcastle on Sunday, leaving them without a Premier League away point in 2018 --- the worst record in England's top four divisions.
Arsene Wenger's team are now focused on winning the Europa League to secure Champions League football next season, and Cech said it was hard to work out why they were struggling away from North London.
"It is very difficult to explain why because, until last season, we were one of the best teams in terms of the away record -- but somehow it has completely reversed this season and we don't seem to find the answer for it," the goalkeeper told the London Evening Standard.
"When you commit so many team mistakes, away or home, you get punished, and Sunday proved that.
"Of course you try to address that, but clearly the same things are happening. We don't do these mistakes -- the team mistakes -- when we play at home. Unfortunately, it has affected our results."
Arsenal led 1-0 at Newcastle thanks to Alexandre Lacazette but collapsed defensively as mistakes were made for both Newcastle goals.
"Having gone 1-0 up, we were pretty much in control. The continuation of errors for the second goal kind of sums up our season. It devalues the good things we have done," Cech said.
"It is not the first time we were 1-0 up away and we didn't get anything in the game."
The loss left Arsenal five points behind fifth-place Chelsea and only two ahead of seventh-placed Burnley as they look set for their worst league finish under Wenger.
Cech said they could not disregard the remaining league games and only focus on the Europa League, where they face Atletico Madrid in the semifinals.
"We are in the two competitions, so we need to keep switching between them and do our best," he said.
"We are in a position where we must win all our remaining games and hope it lifts us in the table. We are in a very difficult moment because everybody else has a big advantage.
"In the Europa League we have a semifinal to play, so we need to make sure we are ready."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Arsenal midfielder Santi Cazorla trained at Real Oviedo's facilities on Monday as he continues his recovery from a severe Achilles injury that has kept him sidelined for more than 18 months.
The 33-year-old, whose contract with Arsenal expires this summer, said in January, shortly after undergoing his 10th surgery for the right ankle problem, that he was aiming to return to action in 2019.
Real Oviedo, where Cazorla started his playing career, tweeted a photograph of the former Spain international with the club's reserve side and said:" It's a luxury to have in our training facilities at El Requexon our youth product, club member and shareholder Santi Cazorla. This is your home Santi!"
Oviedo, who play in the Segunda Division, said that Cazorla had completed his daily workout as" he continues his recovery process."
Un lujo recibir en nuestras instalaciones de El Requexón al canterano, abonado y accionista @19SCazorla. ¡Esta es tu casa, Santi! 😉💙#RealOviedo pic.twitter.com/sOU8OQmLqF

Cazorla had a light training session on the Emirates pitch before his team's Europa League semifinal draw against Atletico Madrid last Thursday.
Arsenal coach Arsene Wenger recently said Cazorla "feels well" but thinks the player's career at Arsenal may be over, though Cazorla told AS on Tuesday he is still hopeful of recovering before the end of the season.
"I've still got some way to go, because after being sidelined for 18 months, everything has to be done in its own time. But the sensations I have keep getting better and I'm feeling optimistic about the future," Cazorla said. "The objective is to play some part with the team before the season ends, but we have to take things carefully.
"After being out for so long it will take a while to get back into form, it's a real struggle, but when you have been out like I have, you also notice pains elsewhere -- apart from what I've had with my tendon.
"But all of that must mean that I am doing things right, and I hope to be back as soon as possible."
He has scored 29 goals in 180 appearances for the Gunners since joining the club from Malaga in 2012.
A Euro 2008 and 2012 winner with Spain, Cazorla thanked Arsenal in the past for being very supportive. Cazorla also recently took to Twitter to thank Wenger, who will step down at the end of the campaign after 21 and a half years in charge.
He tweeted: "Arsene, thank you very much! I have learnt with you!"
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Cesc Fabregas has paid tribute to former Arsenal vice-chairman David Dein by saying the club was "never the same" after he left.
Fabregas, who is working as a pundit in Russia during the World Cup, posted a photo on Instagram of himself and Dein on Sunday evening after a meal together.
"Great dinner with the first man to sign me professionally," Fabregas said. "It was never the same after you left."
 Great dinner with the first man to sign me professionally. It was never the same after you left. #DavidDein
A post shared by  Cesc Fàbregas (@cescf4bregas) on Jun 17, 2018 at 3:06pm PDT

Fabregas joined Arsenal from Barcelona's academy in 2003 as a 16-year-old and signed his first professional contract a year later, at a time when Dein still played a large part in recruiting players to the club.
Dein, who also brought in Arsene Wenger as manager in 1996, left the club in 2007 after falling out with the board amid a takeover bid from American billionaire Stan Kroenke, and is believed to have been the only board member originally in favour of the bid.
He ended up selling his own 14 percent stake to Russian billionaire Alisher Usmanov, while most other Arsenal directors eventually sold to Kroenke, who is now the majority shareholder.
Arsenal won the FA Cup in 2005 but did not win another major honour until 2014, and are still without a Premier League title since 2004.
Wenger also highlighted Dein's influence shortly before he stepped down as Arsenal manager last month.
"He had a special vision for the future, for the Premier League and as well he gave me, a foreign manager, a chance when nobody knew me here," Wenger said. "And he was always a consistent support for my 22 years, so I think he deserves from myself a special thank you because he's a special man."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Jack Wilshere has decided to leave Arsenal, ending a 17-year stint at his boyhood club after being told he wouldn't be a prominent part of Unai Emery's rebuilding process.
Wilshere confirmed in an Instagram post on Tuesday that he will not sign a new contract and that he was left with "no option but to pursue other opportunities."
Wilshere's current deal expires in two weeks, and the 26-year-old has agreed to move on after learning he would see his playing time reduced under Emery, the new Arsenal coach who took over from Arsene Wenger in May.
The move comes as Arsenal are in talks to to sign Sampdoria midfielder Lucas Torreira, who is at the World Cup with Uruguay.
"I can confirm that I will be leaving Arsenal when my contract expires at the end of June," Wilshere wrote. "Following a number of extensive conversations with those art the club, and in particular a recent meeting with new manager Unai Emery, I felt that I was ultimately left with little choice but to make the decision that I have due to purely footballing reasons.
"As has widely been reported, I, along with my representative have been in talks with the club for a number of months with a view to signing a new contract to extend my stay at the Emirartes."
 💙💙
A post shared by  Jack Wilshere (@jackwilshere) on Jun 19, 2018 at 1:17pm PDT

Wilshere confirmed he had been willing to take a pay cut to stay with the club he joined as a nine-year-old, but ultimately had to choose consistent minutes over his loyalty to Arsenal.
"My intention throughout these discussions has always been to remain and Arsenal player. I have been on the books at Arsenal for 17 years and have always felt part of the fabric of the club. Such was my desire to stay that I had in fact recently agreed to sign a financially reduced contract in order to commit my future to the club.
"However following my meeting with the new manager I was made aware that although the reduced contract offer remaining, it was made clear to me that my playing time would be significantly reduced should I decide to stay.
"I am sure everyone can understand that at this point in my life and career I need to be playing regular first team football and following my meeting with Mr Emery I came away feeling that it would be very difficult to do so at Arsenal.
"Given this, I feel I have no option but to pursue other opportunities in order to progress my career on the pitch."
 💙💙
A post shared by  Jack Wilshere (@jackwilshere) on Jun 19, 2018 at 1:17pm PDT

The decision ends a decade-long stint in the Arsenal first team for Wilshere that was repeatedly interrupted by long-term injuries. He made his debut as a 16-year-old in 2008, becoming the club's youngest ever player in the Premier League and Europe.
Still, he leaves the club just shy of 200 career appearances with two seasons almost completely lost to injuries and having spent the 2016-17 campaign on loan at Bournemouth.
He seemed to shake off his injury problems in this past campaign, though, making a total of 38 appearances in all competitions -- his most since 2010-11, but that still wasn't enough to make England's World Cup squad.
His departure comes after Granit Xhaka and Ainsley Maitland-Niles -- two other central midfielders -- both signed contract extensions, and with the club trying to convince Aaron Ramsey to commit his long-term future as well.
Arsenal thanked Wilshere "for your contribution and the fantastic memories" in a statement on the club website, adding: "Everyone at Arsenal would like to wish Jack Wilshere a successful future following his decision to seek new opportunities.
A number of Premier League clubs have been linked with Wilshere in recent weeks, including Crystal Palace, West Ham and Wolves. Juventus have reportedly also been interested in signing the midfielder.
Earlier on Tuesday, Arsenal completed the signing of goalkeeper Bernd Leno from Bayer Leverkusen, throwing Petr Cech's future at the club into doubt in the process.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Former Arsenal goalkeeper Jens Lehmann says the Gunners must win the Premier League under Unai Emery for the club's coaching change to be considered a success -- but that it's Tottenham who remind him of the "old" Arsenal he used to play for.
Emery was brought in to replace Arsene Wenger after his 22-year reign ended with a sixth-place finish in the league last season. Lehmann was part of Wenger's coaching staff last year but was let go as part of the backroom changes.
"This won't happen in Premier League," Lehmann told Bild when asked if asking if defending champions Manchester City are about to build a Bayern Munich-style dynasty in England. "The quality gap is not as big as in the Bundesliga.
"I see a lot of potential at Chelsea, who have a new manager in Maurizio Sarri. Usually, Chelsea have a successful first year under a new sporting leadership. I expect them back in the title. Liverpool, just like Tottenham, must win something someday. And my ex-club Arsenal also have a new manager and must win the trophy with Unai Emery.
"If it's not their goal to win the league, why all the changes in the club? The Arsenal squad is not worse than those of the other teams."
- The Luck Index: The findings and methodology 
-  Man United luckiest, Liverpool unluckiest 
-  Index proves luck doesn't even out over time 
-  10 games from last season affected by luck
Lehmann also gave a surprising compliment to Spurs by comparing them to the youthful Arsenal sides that he was a part of between 2003 and 2008.
"Having played for Arsenal, you don't really like the local rival Tottenham that much," Lehmann said. "Regardless, I must admit: They remind me a bit of the 'old' Arsenal I played in. Many young and interesting players. But Spurs and [Harry] Kane must make use of the current momentum they have before it collapses one day. It appears they right now don't know how to win trophies. But it's must if you want to be a big side."
Lehmann also said Arsenal's new goalkeeper Bernd Leno still has a lot to prove as he tries to topple Petr Cech as the Gunners' No. 1.
"Bernd is a good keeper, no doubt about that," he said. "The question is: Can he show more than he did in the past? He must take more risks and continue his development. He does that - good. He fails to do so? Arsenal will look at a new keeper in one or two seasons."
The former Germany international also questioned Liverpool's decision to spend £65 million on Alisson, saying the Brazil goalkeeper hasn't proven that he's among the world's best.
"Alisson is certainly a good man, but not a world-class keeper you'd expect for this price. He has not given any proof of it," Lehmann said. "I see many keepers playing at his level. He's 25 now and made 100 professional appearances so far, 50 of them coming for Roma last season.
"I am always interested to see whether those players can actually become world class. You must ask yourself why they only played 50 matches in six years as a pro."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Arsenal boss Unai Emery has made Laurent Koscielny captain of the club despite his long-term injury, and named Mesut Ozil among his four other co-captains.
Emery has said all summer that he would name five captains of the squad, with Koscielny now named as the No. 1 among them even though the centre-back isn't expected back until December at the earliest because of a torn Achilles tendon.
The other four captains are goalkeeper Petr Cech and midfield trio Aaron Ramsey, Ozil and Granit Xhaka, Emery revealed on Friday.
"This morning, I give them [the squad] the official captain. First, he is injured but he is also captain of this group, is Koscielny," Emery said ahead of Sunday's Premier League opener against Manchester City. "In my career, I want leaders in the team. ... It's natural these five players are in the position to be captain."
Koscielny usually wore the armband last season as well, as club captain Per Mertesacker rarely played. Emery had hinted at his choice of the other four during preseason, as Cech, Ramsey, Ozil and Xhaka were all captain for at least one game.
Spreading out the responsibility of shouldering a leadership role could be a way to tackle what was a chronic problem under Wenger, when the Gunners were often accused of lacking natural leaders and a winning mentality in big games. Arsenal also signed veteran defenders Stephan Lichtsteiner -- who is the Switzerland captain -- and Sokratis Papastathopoulos, who are also seen as strong personalities both on and off the pitch.
Emery said he is working hard toward instilling a new mentality in the team, but that it could take time.
"I want one thing, because it's very important for us and for the player, is take confidence. Confidence in our work, confidence in himself," Emery said. "I have confidence in myself, and also I can give them the confidence. But then also we need to build [a mentality] and it isn't a thing you find quickly. You need building it up in time."
Emery also dodged a question about whether Wenger has sent him any messages at all going into the season, saying only that he wants to build on the Frenchman's legacy. Emery became Arsenal's first new manager since 1996 after Wenger stepped down in May following a 22-year reign.
"The past is very important in this club, with the people that were working here. But we are starting a new way, and a new process," he said. "And [we are] keeping a lot of the good ideas they were working with here, and also bringing my new [ideas] for how to improve in the tactical things, or my idea to transmit to the players my spirit."
Emery faces a trial by fire against the defending champions in the opening game, and said that game will give a better indication of whether the Gunners can compete for the title this season.
"The match is going to give us the information [of what] is our level," he said. "But we want to play with the idea to create a winning mentality. ... I believe in me, I believe in the players, I believe in the club. But then we are going to watch Sunday, how is the response of the team against Manchester City. But my idea is to give us the best performance quickly."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Arsene Wenger wants to return to management in January, saying he has received "enquiries from all over the world" and does not know whether it will be with a club or a national side.
The former Arsenal manager said he could even be tempted to return to Japan, where he managed before moving to the Premier League in 1996.
However, Wenger dismissed the idea he would join Bayern Munich and said the club should stick with under-fire coach Niko Kovac.
"Yes, it looks like it," Wenger told Sport Bild when asked whether he is still planning to return to management. "I believe that [I'll] start again on Jan. 1. I don't know yet [where I'm headed]. I am rested, and I am ready to work again."
But Wenger said it's "not 100 percent" that he will return to club management.
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

"There are associations, national teams; it could be also [in] Japan," Wenger said. "Thanks to my 22 years at Arsenal, I have big experience on different levels. There are enquiries from all over the world."
Wenger also said Mesut Ozil's withdrawal from international football could be bad for his future.
Ozil decided to quit playing for Germany after the World Cup, saying he was subjected to racism following the team's group-stage exit, and was widely criticised at home before the tournament over his decision to pose for a photo with Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
"I did not love it that he withdrew from the Germany team [because] the Germans respect what he achieved," Wenger said. "A small bit of motivation disappears when you know that you don't have to be ready for a World Cup, a European Championship. I love it when the players are as good as possible. He loses a bit if he does not play at an international level."
Wenger, 68, also lamented the changing culture in football, saying individual players are gradually gaining more followers than the clubs.
"Footballers played for their club 20 years ago," Wenger said. "These days, clubs do everything for the players. In the past, [a player] felt guilty when he played bad. These days, clubs feel guilty towards their players and ask themselves what more can be done.
"The fans have become more international. Local fans might stay local fans, and those living in, say, Dortmund and the surroundings will always go to see BVB. But if Ronaldo leaves Real [Madrid] for Juve, the fans follow him to Juve. The international basis is more interested in players than in clubs. This hands a lot of power to the players. Neymar has some 170 million followers. He alone is stronger than the league."
He also predicted that fans will soon be allowed to determine which players should be substituted during games via social media.
"In the next five years, it might happen that social media substitutes players during a match," Wenger said. "They'll have a hook-up at half-time and determine which players get substituted and who will be brought on during the second half. This will happen.
"The power of clubs will only decrease. That's why the heads in the clubs must become stronger. You must step up the fight against the influence from the outside."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Arsenal have issued an update on Danny Welbeck, saying he sustained "a significant right ankle injury" against Sporting Lisbon on Thursday.
Welbeck was carried off on a stretcher during the 0-0 Europa League draw, with Arsenal coach Unai Emery saying he feared he had broken his ankle.
"Danny remains in hospital and will continue to be assessed. A further update will be issued over the next 72 hours," the Arsenal update said.
It remains unclear whether Welbeck will be able to play for Arsenal again before his contract expires in the summer.
Teammates have offered support as the former Manchester United player faces his third long injury layoff since 2015.
"Danny is a tough lad, so if he's on the floor, I know it's something serious. He's in hospital now and we'll see what happens," defender Rob Holding said.
"He's been so unlucky with injuries over the past few years, but he's a good character and got a good set of lads around him so we'll lift him up and get him back as soon as we can. He can come back strong."
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

Welbeck was carried off the pitch with an oxygen mask over his face after landing awkwardly and collapsing in pain 25 minutes into the game.
Images showed Welbeck's right ankle bent at an unnatural angle, and Emery told his postmatch news conference: "The worst news tonight is this injury. We think it's a serious injury. He breaks something in his ankle.
"His injury also [impacted] the mentality of the players, because they looked and saw it's a big injury."
Stephan Lichtsteiner also limped off with a hamstring problem in the second half, but could return for Sunday's game against Wolverhampton Wanderers.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Arsenal have issued an update on Danny Welbeck, saying he sustained "a significant right ankle injury" against Sporting Lisbon on Thursday.
Welbeck was carried off on a stretcher during the 0-0 Europa League draw, with Arsenal coach Unai Emery saying he feared he had broken his ankle.
"Danny remains in hospital and will continue to be assessed. A further update will be issued over the next 72 hours," the Arsenal update said.
It remains unclear whether Welbeck will be able to play for Arsenal again before his contract expires in the summer.
Teammates have offered support as the former Manchester United player faces his third long injury layoff since 2015.
"Danny is a tough lad, so if he's on the floor, I know it's something serious. He's in hospital now and we'll see what happens," defender Rob Holding said.
"He's been so unlucky with injuries over the past few years, but he's a good character and got a good set of lads around him so we'll lift him up and get him back as soon as we can. He can come back strong."
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

Welbeck was carried off the pitch with an oxygen mask over his face after landing awkwardly and collapsing in pain 25 minutes into the game.
Images showed Welbeck's right ankle bent at an unnatural angle, and Emery told his postmatch news conference: "The worst news tonight is this injury. We think it's a serious injury. He breaks something in his ankle.
"His injury also [impacted] the mentality of the players, because they looked and saw it's a big injury."
Stephan Lichtsteiner also limped off with a hamstring problem in the second half, but could return for Sunday's game against Wolverhampton Wanderers.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Arsenal coach Unai Emery says teenager Emile Smith Rowe can serve as an "example" for the other academy players after the midfielder starred for a youthful Gunners side against FC Vorskla in the Europa League.
Smith Rowe scored the opening goal of a 3-0 win and was one of several youngsters who impressed for Arsenal, who finished the game with six teenagers on the pitch.
It's time to find a way to fix the Champions League -- or start a European super league.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule
It was the third goal in his last four starts for Smith Rowe, who has emerged as one of the top prospects at the club. And Emery, who brought 12 academy products to Ukraine for this game, said he is hoping the club's other youngsters can learn from the England youth international.
"He is taking confidence, he is taking responsibility and also I think today his performance in 90 minutes is very good," Emery said of Smith Rowe. "He is a good example for the other young players.
"We think they can help us but they need the confidence of playing matches, not only working with us in the training sessions. They need to take minutes in matches like today. We want and have the responsibility with the young players like Emile but also the others for them to stay, work and show us that they can improve and stay with us."
Fellow teenager Joe Willock also scored his first goal for the club, while striker Eddie Nketiah was handed his first start under Emery. The Arsenal boss also handed debuts to three other teenagers who came off the bench in the second half in centre-back Zech Medley, winger Bukayo Saka and midfielder Charlie Gilmour.
Emery left nearly all of his Premier League regulars at home, with one eye toward Sunday's North London Derby.
"We were thinking today about our victory and also to create with the right players and to give chances to a lot of players," Emery said. "We played with young players also and they are working with us in training every day.
"In the 90 minutes, the first thing for us is to win, and then finish the match with some substitutions and the end result."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Arsenal head of recruitment Sven Mislintat has said the signing of Matteo Guendouzi from Lorient has proved that young players have the chance to shine at the Emirates.
Teenage midfielder Guendouzi, who arrived for £7 million, has made 19 competitive appearances, 13 of them starts, this season.
"I saw him play Lorient when they were still in Ligue 1," Mislintat told German weekly Die Zeit. "I like that club, you always find interesting players there.
"For us, the transfer of this then 18-year-old was important to show the world that we are the old Arsenal again. Young players will get their chance to shine here.
"Guendouzi immediately attracted attention with his long hair and his personality. But I was also interested in the weaknesses. Can you take corrective action?
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

"Matteo was inexpediently running across the pitch, but it was clear to me that this was only a matter of training and there was time to break this habit."
Mislintat, nicknamed "Diamond Eye" during his time at Borussia Dortmund, left his role as head scout at his hometown club to join Arsenal late last year.
In the summer, the Gunners invested around £70m in new players with a focus on defensive stability following the appointment of Unai Emery as successor to Arsene Wenger.
"We held long and intense talks with candidates when looking for someone to replace Arsene Wenger, and I was the one to lead the football-specific discussions," Mislintat said.
"I watched five, six matches from each of the potential candidates, and had to think my way into their work routine -- which system does he play?
"As a part of a group, I shared responsibility for the appointment of Unai Emery. Head of recruitment means not only identifying talents but also signing them."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The FC crew answer your tweets on N'Golo Kante's positioning under Maurizio Sarri, what Unai Emery will do with Mesut Ozil and much more. (8:54)
Arsenal's Ainsley Maitland-Niles has joined Raheem Sterling in speaking out about racism, praising the Manchester City winger for standing up for himself after he claimed to have been racially abused at Stamford Bridge.
The 21-year-old midfielder said he was subjected to the same kind of incident when he was "about 12" and playing a youth game for Arsenal in Germany.
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

"It was similar to what Raheem got to be honest," Maitland-Niles told a news conference ahead of Arsenal's final Europa League group game. "Literally went out to pick up the ball for a throw-in and there was a bit of racial abuse behind me.
"It hurts to talk about it, it hurts to think about it, but that's why I think it's so important that we need to get rid of it in the game.
"I think it's disgusting honestly, and I really do credit Raheem for coming out and standing up for himself and other players and speaking about it. Raheem is a good brave lad for doing it."
Meanwhile, Arsenal captain Laurent Koscielny will make his first start of the season on Thursday against Qarabag, while Mesut Ozil is also back fit and available for the Europa League game, coach Unai Emery has confirmed.
Koscielny has played two games with the under-23s after returning from a torn Achilles tendon and is set for his first Arsenal appearance since May in Thursday's game.
Ozil could also play his first game in a month after recovering from a back problem, although Emery hinted he will field a team full of youth players for what is essentially a meaningless game, with Arsenal having already secured first place in the group.
"We are going to use tomorrow with some different players, with some coming from U23s," he said. "We also start to play with Laurent Koscielny.
"Tomorrow [Ozil] is in the group, the 18 players for this match. We are going to decide if he will play tomorrow from the beginning or during the 90 minutes."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Arsenal coach Unai Emery hailed 17-year-old Bukayo Saka for playing "with a very big personality" on his full debut for the Gunners in Thursday's 1-0 win over Qarabag in the Europa League.
Saka made his first start for the Gunners on the left wing showed plenty of confidence as he tested goalkeeper Vagner with an early strike from the edge of the box and tried to take on defenders with an exciting blend of pace and skill.
He probably should have capped his performance with a goal as well when he had a gilt-edged chance to double Arsenal's lead but fired almost straight at the goalkeeper.
Saka is the latest youngster to impress Emery during this Europa League group stage, which has also seen good performances by fellow teenagers Eddie Nketiah, Emile Smith Rowe and Joe Willock.
"They show us in every match positive things. And today Saka also, he played with a good performance with a very big personality," Emery said. "We were speaking at half-time, they were trying one-on-ones against the opposition.
"Not every action was good for us, but his personality is very important to continue in the second half trying to do one-on-ones and break lines with his quality. He played with a very big personality for the 90 minutes, and with sometimes a good performance. And for him it's very important for his confidence."
Alexandre Lacazette scored the winning goal for Arsenal in a game that was otherwise mostly noteworthy for captain Laurent Koscielny making his return after seven months out with an Achilles injury.
Koscielny was taken off with 20 minutes left, but Emery said it's too soon to say whether he'll be ready to play again on Sunday against Southampton, when Arsenal are facing a centre-back crisis. First-choice duo Sokratis Papastathopoulos and Shkodran Mustafi are both suspended for the game, while Rob Holding has been ruled out for the season with a torn knee ligament.
"Today is another step for [Koscielny]. And we need to know tomorrow and Saturday how he is going to feel after this match, to see if Sunday we can use him to help us on the pitch," Emery said. "When he is coming back like today with us, I think every Arsenal supporter is happy, and so is the player.
"And then there is this process with him, to take confidence again, take rhythm by playing matches like today. And then we are going to continue this process maybe Sunday, but I want to wait tomorrow and Saturday how he will feel after this match."
The match against Qarabag was a largely meaningless affair as Arsenal had already clinched the group win and neither team had anything to play for. But Emery still opted to start Sokratis and Lacazette, along with the fit-again Mesut Ozil, and rejected the notion that it was a risky decision heading into the busy festive period.
Emery said: "First we need to have the mix in the first 11 with young players and players with experience. Because [the youngsters] can play better if you have with you also players to help you on the pitch.
"And for example Sokratis, he cannot play Sunday so he can play today. Lacazette, I think he needs rhythm, and it's not bad for him to play today."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Arsenal coach Unai Emery has said he is not worried about the team's centre-back crisis for Sunday's game against Southampton, and is confident he has players who are ready to step up in the position.
His side could be without a single natural centre-back for the game at St. Mary's as Shkodran Mustafi and Sokratis Papastathopoulos are both suspended, while Rob Holding is out with a long-term injury. Laurent Koscielny made his first appearance of the season in the Europa League on Thursday, but Emery is still unsure if the club captain can play a second game just three days later.
That means at least one full-back or midfielder could have to play in central defence, with left-back Nacho Monreal probably the most likely candidate.

"We are going to see for Sunday," Emery said. "We don't have Mustafi, we don't have Rob Holding, we don't have Sokratis, but I believe in my players and I think we can use another player like a centre-back.
"I have one idea in my mind, but we need to work Friday and Saturday [in training] and also to know how is the recovery physically for Laurent, for the possibility that he can help us Sunday. But I think every player [is] now OK for helping us in the position we need."
Emery used right-back Carl Jenkinson as a centre-back in their previous Europa League game, while fellow full-backs Stephan Lichtsteiner and Sead Kolasinac could also be options if Emery plays with a back three.
Midfielder Mohamed Elneny was also used as a centre-back by Arsene Wenger at times last season.
Arsenal could get one injury boost, though, as Emery said Aaron Ramsey is expected to be available again after recovering from an ankle injury.
"We think so, yes," Emery said. "The doctor said to me he thinks [Friday] and Saturday he can train and can be OK for Sunday."
Southampton are 19th in the Premier League, but Emery warned that their position is misleading, and he expects new manager Ralph Hasenhuttl to have an immediate impact.
"I watched matches with Southampton, and they have very good players with good quality, and for me it is a surprise they are in this position in the table," Emery said.
"They changed the coach, but they have the same players and they are going to change things with the new coach [and will] improve I think.
"We know Sunday is a very difficult match for us, and they are going to play with their supporters and also pushing a lot against us because they need to win for the three points. But for us it's also very important."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Paul Mariner and the FC panel agree that Arsenal kept their momentum going from their weekend win over Man United against a lacklustre Rennes side. (1:31)
Arsenal manager Unai Emery hailed his side's ability to cope under pressure after they came back from a 3-1 loss in the first leg of their Europa League last-16 tie with Rennes to win 3-0 on Thursday and advance 4-3 on aggregate.
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang struck either side of an Ainsley Maitland-Niles goal as the North London side joined local rivals Chelsea in the quarterfinals of Europe's second-tier club competition.
Arsenal became only the second team in Europa League history to win a tie after losing the first leg 3-1.
"This comeback was very difficult, but I think the reaction was very good from every player," Emery told reporters.
"We can be proud of our players today because it was a very difficult week -- (Manchester) United on Sunday and today against Rennes."
Arsenal's 2-0 home Premier League win over Manchester United on Sunday kept alive their hopes of a top-four finish and a place in the Champions League next season.
"Playing under pressure is good, growing up under pressure -- with each player playing like a team and feeling the difficult moments to give us our best performance," Emery said.
Arsenal have missed out on Champions League football for the last two seasons, and their poor away record remains a big concerns. Although they have no more top-six teams to face in the Premier League this season, they play more away than home fixtures.
Nevertheless, Emery said the Champions League, Europe's premier club competition, was not his only focus because the Europa League -- which he won three times in a row from 2014 to 2016 as manager of Sevilla -- also provides the chance for silverware.
"I said to the players today, I'm excited (about) this competition, but it's exciting not only for the possibility to go to the Champions League, but also because it's one title," he said.
He also took note of surprising results elsewhere.
"Today, Inter (Milan) are out, Sevilla are out -- a big surprise. And the last teams, they are all very important, and it's going to be very difficult," Emery said.
For his side, the focus must always be simple.
"We are going to think the same before every match. The next match is the most important for us," Emery said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Monaco have signed Malian winger Adama Traore, the Ligue 1 side have announced.
The 20-year-old moves to the Stade Louis II on a five-year deal and joins the principality club as a direct replacement for Yannick Ferreira Carrasco, who joined Atletico Madrid earlier on Friday.
Traore joins Leonardo Jardim's side after impressing for Lille last season and Monaco vice-president Vadim Vasilyev believes the club have captured a young player of real quality ahead of other reported suitors including Paris St. Germain, Manchester United and Liverpool.
Adama Traoré - Mejor Jugador de la Copa del Mundo Sub20 firma con el @AS_Monaco_ES por 5 años ! #WelcomeToMonaco pic.twitter.com/m3n80xtvyh
- AS MONACO (@AS_Monaco) July 10, 2015
"AS Monaco is proud to now count Adama Traore among its ranks, whose recruitment is part of the strategy of the club to invest in the future," Vasilyev told the club's website.
"He was named the best player of the Under-20 World Cup which speaks volumes about his qualities.
"This great hope of football has chosen to come to Monaco to thrive and grow in contact with Leonardo Jardim's players.
"This determination to join us as he was being made higher offers from important clubs, shows the quality of our project and its appeal."
El @AS_Monaco tiene el placer de anunciar la llegada de Helder Costa (cedido) !!! #WelcomeToMonaco pic.twitter.com/SLr31KCRNB
- AS MONACO (@AS_Monaco) July 10, 2015
El @AS_Monaco se complace en anunciar la llegada de Ivan Cavaleiro por 5 años ! #WelcomeToMonaco pic.twitter.com/8AfqHU1Nog
- AS MONACO (@AS_Monaco) July 10, 2015
Monaco, meanwhile, have also announced the signing of 21-year-old Benfica winger Helder Costa on a season-long loan, and 21-year-old forward Ivan Cavaleiro to a five-year deal.
Press Association contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Monaco's official supporters' club has urged fans who attended Sunday's 7-1 thrashing at Paris Saint-Germain to reject the club's offer to reimburse the cost of their trip.
PSG sealed the Ligue 1 title with the huge win at Parc des Princes, and Monaco said they would refund fans who had made the near 2,000-kilometre return journey to the French capital.
The thrashing leaves deposed champions Monaco four points ahead of Lyon and Marseille in second place, which brings qualification for the group stages of the Champions League, with five games left.
And the Club des Supporters de Monaco accused Leonardo Jardim's players of performing better for their countries than their club, saying that if fans turned down the refund it would show they had been there for the love of the club.
"Yesterday evening, like two years ago in Lyon, our players took themselves for tennis players. That's intolerable in our eyes," a post on the club's official Facebook account said.
"It's difficult to accept and totally incomprehensible to see that you can play flamboyantly for your national team and then be transparent with AS Monaco, all the while declaring loud and clear your desire to leave.
"Of course, we understand that you might not perform in one game (remember Brazil at the World Cup and PSG in Barcelona). That's why we thank the two or three players who came to apologise yesterday evening. There are five matches left which must allow us to keep second place.
"We demand five wins and we remind you that wearing the shirt is an honour and not a chore or a springboard.
"We would like to thank [Monaco vice-president] Mr Vadim Vasilyev (who has helped us a lot since arriving at the club) for his gesture towards the supporters, but we suggest our members do not ask to be reimbursed because, unlike some of our players, we are and will always be there simply for the love of the shirt."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Thierry Henry has been appointed as new head coach of Ligue 1 club Monaco, replacing Leonardo Jardim.
Sources told ESPN FC on Friday that 41-year-old Henry would sign a three-year contract, and he takes charge of the club at which he began his professional career until 2021.
#HesComingHome #ForeverMonaco pic.twitter.com/GuSYXnMt4u

The former Arsenal and Barcelona forward will officially begin work on Monday, the club said in a statement.
Henry, who joined Monaco as a 13-year-old in 1991 and won the Ligue 1 title at the Stade Louis II in 1997, told the club's official website: "In the first place, I thank AS Monaco for giving me the opportunity to coach the team of this club, which is so special to me.
"I am very happy to come back to AS Monaco and extremely determined to meet the challenges ahead. I cannot wait to meet the players to start working together."
Monaco vice-president Vadim Vasilyev added: "Thierry is both aware of the task ahead and eager to start his new job. He can count on our trust and all our support to bring a new dynamic to the team and carry out the mission."
Henry had been working as an assistant to Roberto Martinez with Belgium and was on the bench for Friday's 2-1 UEFA Nations League victory over Switzerland.
He had previously been linked with Aston Villa, who instead named former Brentford coach Dean Smith as boss on Thursday.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.

"It is with great pride that I am delighted to announce that I have accepted the position to become the manager of AS Monaco FC," Henry wrote on Twitter.
"I was fortunate to receive some very attractive offers over the last few months, but Monaco will always be close to my heart.
"Having started my football career with this great club, it seems like fate that I will now begin my managerial career here too.
"I'm incredibly excited to be given this opportunity but now the hard work must begin. Can't wait."
Henry, who made his senior Monaco debut under then manager Arsene Wenger in the 1994-95 season, was voted French Young Player of the Year a season later.
Monaco, Ligue 1 champions two seasons ago, are in the relegation zone after winning just one of their first nine matches this term.
Sources told ESPN FC on Tuesday that Jardim was to be sacked and replaced by Henry and, after the Portuguese coach's dismissal was confirmed on Thursday, the way was clear for Henry to be hired.
Monaco's next match is at Strasbourg on Saturday Oct. 20.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The Ligue 1 touchline clash between former France and Arsenal greats Thierry Henry and Patrick Vieira is one of five matches that have been postponed due to anti-government protests across the country this weekend.
Monaco, managed by Henry, were due to welcome Vieira's Nice on Friday evening. However, that game was called off on Thursday, along with Saint-Etienne vs. Marseille, slated for Sunday, and Paris Saint-Germain vs. Montpellier, Toulouse vs. Lyon and Angers against Bordeaux on Saturday.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.

In each case, government or police authorities requested the postponement.
France's government is diverting police resources to deploy extra security around the country amid threats of new protests on Saturday. Recent demonstrations against fuel tax rises and other grievances have resulted in rioting, looting and hundreds of injuries.
The league says the matches will be rescheduled.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AS Roma's dramatic Champions League elimination by Porto, thanks to a late penalty awarded with a VAR review, was a "terrible way to go out," their captain Daniele De Rossi said on Wednesday.
The grizzled, veteran midfielder added that he did not know what would happen to beleaguered coach Eusebio Di Francesco who headed straight for the team bus without giving interviews after losing a match which Italian media said was decisive for his future at the club.
Roma, semifinalists last year, were beaten 4-3 on aggregate after losing Wednesday's second leg 3-1 in extra time, the decisive goal coming from a penalty awarded with after a VAR review three minutes from the end.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.
"It's a terrible way to go out but the truth is we have to accept it," he said. "We are a team of highs and lows. It wasn't a perfect performance but we saw a united team with real men."
"We were within touching distance of penalties and a chance of getting to the quarter-finals for a second year in a row."
Roma defender Kostas Manolas said the referee and VAR were "a disgrace" in not giving the Giallorossi a late penalty, just minutes after the technology had been used to award Porto a spot kick which proved decisive.
"They give a penalty against us and not one for us which was clear -- the referee didn't even go to see it, which is a disgrace," Manolas told Sky Sport Italia "There was clear contact and I really don't understand why these things only happen against us.
"It was the same last year, that they didn't give us two penalties [against Liverpool in the semifinals]. The referees apologised to us then, but now there's the VAR and he's got to go to see it, there's no excuse."
Pallotta: "Last year we asked for VAR in the Champions League because we got screwed in the semi-final and tonight, they've got VAR and we still get robbed. Patrik Schick was clearly clipped in the box, VAR shows it, and nothing is given. I'm tired of this crap. I give up." pic.twitter.com/VPtqTUKhO6
De Rossi said he did not want to enter into the talk about Di Francesco's future.
"I hope we continue with him," he said."I don't know what will happen but nobody can take away from him what he has done. Tomorrow, we will work with him and then the club will decide," he added.
Forward Diego Perotti agreed that the team wanted Di Francesco to stay. He said: "We've always given everything for him, it's a bad moment for all of us. We are all with him."
Roma are fifth in Serie A but defeats against teams from the lower half of the table and a 3-0 derby loss to Lazio on Saturday have put Di Francesco under heavy pressure.
Porto coach Sergio Conceicao praised a "sublime" performance by the Portuguese champions.
"The players understood perfectly what we wanted. It was a sublime performance by all of them, they did a fantastic job," he said.
"It was proof of great maturity and calmness, which shows that this team is strong. They executed the game almost to perfection."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Stiliyan Petrov made his first Aston Villa appearance in more than four years as Roberto Di Matteo's side hammered Austrians Gak 1902 8-0.
Petrov played the second half as Villa romped home over their Austrian sixth-tier opponents, the 37-year-old stepping up his comeback after beating leukaemia.
Bulgaria midfielder Petrov last turned out for Villa in March 2012, before retiring because of his illness.
The 105-cap international confirmed his comeback earlier this summer, and has now duly donned Villa's claret and blue on their preseason tour.
A Jordan Ayew double and goals from Micah Richards and Libor Kozak put Villa in total control, leading 4-0 at the break.
New boss Di Matteo changed the entire team at half-time, and braces from Joe Bennett and Rudy Gestede ensured Villa coasted home.
Middlesbrough started preparations for their Premier League return by thrashing York City 6-0 at Bootham Crescent.
Jordan Rhodes netted twice, with David Nugent, Albert Adomah and Adam Reach all on target, and luckless York goalkeeper Scott Flinders registering an own goal.
Celtic drew a frustrating blank in front of goal in the final match of their preseason tour and were held to a 0-0 stalemate at NK Maribor.
Brendan Rodgers' men failed to find their shooting boots in Slovenia and were unable to hand themselves a morale-boosting victory ahead of Tuesday's Champions League qualifier in Gibraltar.
The Hoops will face Lincoln Red Imps to kick-start their European campaign, but will need to sharpen their finishing on the evidence of Saturday's Stadion Ljudski Vrt clash.
For more scores from Saturday's club friendlies, click here.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Former England boss Graham Taylor was warned about possible sexual abuse of young players during his time as Aston Villa manager but suggested it should be swept "underneath the carpet," a victim has said.
It was claimed in January that Villa sacked scout Ted Langford after learning of the sexual abuse allegations in 1988 but did not alert police.
Langford, who died in 2012, later admitted sex offences dating from 1976 until he left Villa in 1989. He had joined Villa from Leicester in 1987. He was jailed for three years in 2007 for offences against young footballers.
In an interview with the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire show, former Leicester footballer Tony Brien said he was told by Taylor when advising Villa of his concerns: "Look, you're a young lad starting out in the game. I know you've just made your debut. Could you really be dealing with all the obscenities from the terraces? So I just suggest you sweep it underneath the carpet."
Brien said he was immediately upset, and recalled: "I went into the kitchen where my mother was still doing the washing-up and she said, 'Well?' And i just told her, 'They told me to sweep it underneath the carpet,' and I broke down in tears."
Taylor died in January this year aged 72. He was manager at Villa from 1987 to 1990, when he left to take charge of the England team.
Former defender Brien, who waived his right to anonymity to speak about his ordeal, is reported to have informed Villa in the 1987-88 season that he knew from personal experience, from the ages of 12 to 14, that boys were at risk, having suffered abuse at Dunlop Terriers. Managed by Langford, Dunlop Terriers were a feeder side for Leicester and then Villa.
According to the Guardian, the independent inquiry into football's sexual abuse scandal is also looking at a separate allegation that another of Langford's victims came forward with information and that he too was discouraged by Taylor from pursuing the matter after being visited at home by the manager and another member of Villa's staff.
Brien, giving evidence to the inquiry last month, reportedly said that he summoned the courage to report Langford at the age of 18, when a coach left Leicester for Villa and Langford went with him.
Villa say they cannot comment on specific allegations involving Langford because of "ongoing legal proceedings." A statement to the Guardian read: "The club has co-operated fully with the ongoing Football Association investigation and takes the safeguarding and welfare of all players and staff very seriously and considers it to be of paramount importance.
"The club now has robust safeguarding polices and procedures in place to deal with any new and historic complaints raised."
Leicester said in a statement, first issued in January: "We have no indication of any current or historic allegations made against or in relation to employees of Leicester City Football Club. We would, of course, investigate fully in the event any further information comes to light."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Inaki Williams has ended speculation about his future by signing a new contract with Athletic Bilbao that runs through June 2025, the club announced on Wednesday.
A reported Liverpool target, the Spanish forward's previous deal would have expired in 2021.
According to the club, Williams' release clause will be set at €80 million and "will progressively increase" to €108m.
"Today is a very happy day for me because I've extended my commitment with this club for another eight years," Williams wrote on Twitter. "I've always said that I am where I want to be. I've grown here as a player but especially as a person. Everyone that belongs to this club knows that if there is a word that defines it, it is family, and those of you who know me know that family for me comes first.
"Alongside you, I will continue to laugh, cry, work the hardest and give my all for this shirt in every game and every training session. I thank the club, the coaches, the best fans in the world and my teammates, who make me feel the most fortunate footballer in the world for playing alongside them."
The 23-year-old, a youth product of Athletic, broke into the first team in 2014 and has one cap for Spain.
He scored 10 goals in 2014-15, his debut season, and in 32 starts for Athletic in all competitions the following campaign, he had 15 goals and set up five more.
The forward scored five goals in 38 league appearances to help Athletic finish seventh in La Liga last season. This year, he has scored four times and assisted on three goals in 19 league games.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Atlanta United forward Josef Martinez is set to be fit for Sunday's match against undefeated New York FC after suffering an injury during training this week.
The Venezuela international jammed his fingers into Argentine defender Gonzalez Pirez's shoulder during a drill on Wednesday, with the club fearing a serious injury after the 24-year-old collapsed to the ground in visible pain.
"It was tough to tell in the moment because he said he had pain in his fingers, his wrist, his arm and in his elbow," manager Tata Martino said on Friday. "So the higher he went up his arm, the more worried we got.
"But in the end, it just ended up being his fingers."
Martinez has been training fully since the injury and Martino joked that he doesn't expect him to miss any time.
"If it's still painful [Sunday], we'll just have to cut off the fingers, and he'll play anyway," Martino said.
On the season, Martinez is tied for the league lead with five goals from five matches.
Despite his prolific start, however, Atlanta goalkeeper Brad Guzan said the club was prepared to cope without him.
"We know that we have many important players on this team and he's not the only important player," Guzan said. "There's a lot more and we've got guys who can step in.
"Part of this business is injuries and you have to deal with it. Luckily for us, it wasn't anything major and he should be good."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Atlanta United coach Gerardo "Tata" Martino said on Friday that he did not hear from anyone at U.S. Soccer to gauge his interest in taking over the men's national team.
Martino is leaving Atlanta at the end of the MLS season and is expected to take over as Mexico's coach. The former Barcelona and Argentina coach has Atlanta on the verge of the Supporters' Shield for the best-regular season record and home-field advantage for the playoffs.
"I can't feel disappointed for a position that they didn't think I was a good candidate," Martino said, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
"It's like asking you if you would be interested in working for CNN, but without CNN having ever talked to you. How would you have a comment on that?" Martino added. "Why am I going to waste time thinking about that if no one from CNN had talked to me?"
Martino also reiterated his decision to leave Atlanta at the conclusion of the season, saying it was a decision at the "personal and a professional level and in this case I was thinking about the personal side."
Dave Sarachan has guided the United States in a caretaker basis following its failure to qualify for the World Cup in Russia.
Mexico has been without a full-time replacement for Juan Carlos Osorio, who guided El Tri at the World Cup this summer before stepping down. Since then, Ricardo "Tuca" Ferretti has been in charge of Mexico on an interim basis.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Atlanta United lift their first MLS Cup in just their second-ever season with a convincing 2-0 win over the Portland Timbers. (1:38)
ATLANTA - MLS Cup Most Valuable Player Josef Martinez was in a thankful mood following his team's 2-0 triumph over the Portland Timbers on Saturday night, shouting out everybody from coach Tata Martino to teammate Miguel Almiron.
The Venezuelan forward didn't go as far as to call out every one of the record 73,019 who attended the championship match at Mercedes-Benz Stadium, although for portions of his post-match news conference it felt as though he was headed that way.
"It's been a special week for me," Martinez said through an interpreter. "Before the game, I had a moment with Miguel, and I just thanked him for all of the help that he's given me over these two seasons. I told him that he was going to make me a champion today, because I had never been a champion before, so I want to thank him for that.
"I want to take this opportunity to thank everybody: the coaching staff, the players, the fans, the city. I know it's been a long time since they had a championship, and I think they deserved it."
The title was Atlanta's first in a major professional sport since the Braves won the World Series in 1995, and won in large part thanks to Martinez's contributions.
Martinez, who was also named the league's overall MVP earlier this week having netted 31 regular-season goals, opened the scoring in the 39th minute and played a key role in the second, too. He won the foul that resulted in the free kick that he then headed into Franco Escobar's path to double the lead, sending the home crowd into further hysterics.
"I was feeling a lot of pressure for this game," Martinez said. "Neighbors were putting flags all around my house, and pushing notes under my door. I had a lot of pressure to deal with. But I just wanted to say thank you again to everyone, to the fans, who deserve it, and to be able to do it in this building."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
GUADALAJARA, Mexico -- Atlas midfielder and former England youth Ravel Morrison may soon be a Jamaica international.
The 25-year-old posted a letter on Instagram that appeared to be the Jamaica Football Federation asking Atlas to release him for Jamaica's friendly on March 25 in Kingston against Antigua and Barbuda.
ESPN Mexico reported that Morrison is keen and that the paperwork is being processed to enable the former Manchester United player to play for the Reggae Boyz.
"He will meet the members of the technical staff, conclude his applications to acquire the requisite documentation he needs to play in future games," read the letter, implying that Morrison won't feature in the friendly this month.
Ravel Morrison set to play for Jamaica? #ligamxeng pic.twitter.com/1GaOt8JEE4

Manchester native Morrison played for England at youth level, but qualifies for Jamaica and considered representing the Caribbean island as far back as 2012.
The Reggae Boyz didn't make the World Cup, but Theodore Whitmore's team will be involved in the upcoming CONCACAF Nations League and likely the 2019 Gold Cup. Jamaica finished runner-up in the 2015 and 2017 Gold Cups.
Morrison came through Manchester United's youth system, before moving to West Ham United and then Lazio, as well as loan spells at Birmingham City, QPR and Cardiff City.
Morrison is currently on loan at Atlas from Lazio and has found some form this season, even if the club has struggled in Liga MX.
The player is in the Atlas squad for Sunday's away game at Veracruz.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Atletico Madrid say an investment of an undisclosed size in Liga MX club Atletico San Luis has been completed, pending ratification by the Mexican authorities, as the La Liga outfit adds a Mexican team to their other overseas franchises in India and France.
Atletico chief executive Miguel Angel Marin travelled in mid-February to meet with executives at the club based in the centrally located Mexican city of San Luis Potosi, and San Luis owners, the Payan family, were in Madrid this week to formalise the deal and attend Wednesday's Champions League game against Bayer Leverkusen at the Calderon.
AS says that Atletico will become majority shareholders in the Liga MX outfit, although the statement on the club's site said all details of the deal will remain private, and a few loose ends still need to be tied up in Mexico.
Hoy la familia atlética se hace más grande. Es un honor participar en el proyecto del Atlético San Luis en México: https://t.co/MAWKHWCEsI
- Atlético de Madrid (@Atleti) March 16, 2017
"Atletico Madrid have made a strong push for some time to expand internationally, studying the most interesting markets and taking in part in them through international franchises such as Atletico de Kolkata in India or Racing Lens in France," the statement said.
"Within these markets the club sees Mexico as very important, so they have been working for some time on the objective of entering it through the Atletico San Luis franchise. A delegation of this club's leaders, the Payan family, came to Madrid for the Champions League game against Bayer Leverkusen.
"During this visit an agreement was achieved for Atletico Madrid to become a shareholder of this sporting company, with a licence to compete in the Mexican second division. All the investments made in this project will have a private character.
"The agreement formalised this week depends upon the fulfillment of steps relating primarily with the processing of a license by the Mexican Federation, and the attainment of an agreement of the shareholders and the use of the stadium."
Atletico's international expansion began with their involvement along with other investors including ex-cricketer Sourav Ganguly in the setting-up of Atletico de Kolkata in 2014. The purchase of 34.6 percent of the French club Lens took place in July 2016.
The Kolkata franchise have won two of the first three Indian Super League trophies -- beating Kerala Blasters on penalties in the 2016 final -- while Lens are currently joint-top of the Ligue 2 standings and looking set for promotion this season.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Atletico Madrid have announced that right-back Sime Vrsaljko has extended his contract up until 2022.
Vrsaljko, 26, had been heavily linked with a January exit when he was out of the team through the autumn, but in recent weeks the Croatia international has made an impressive return to Diego Simeone's XI ahead of previous first choice Juanfran Torres, who is 33.
The news was announced via a club statement which confirmed an extra 12 months had been added to Vrsaljko's previous deal, and in which the player himself said he was happy to keep developing his career at the Wanda Metropolitano.
We're delighted to announce that Sime @Vrsaljko has renewed his contract with Atleti until 2022 pic.twitter.com/9XMNckt4m1


"I am very happy to be able to continue growing here," Vrsaljko said. "I feel very comfortable and the only thing I'm thinking about is working every day to be important to the team."
Vrsaljko joined Atletico from Serie A side Sassuolo for €16 million in July 2016. He has since played 39 times for his current club, scoring one goal and adding six assists -- three of which have come in his last seven La Liga appearances.
During his time at Atletico, Napoli, Juventus and Manchester City have all been mentioned as potential future clubs, but his long-term future now appears set with Atletico.
Atletico did lower their wage burden during the January transfer window by securing exits for midfielder Augusto Fernandez -- to Beijing Reihe for €4.5 million -- and forward Luciano Vietto, who joined Valencia on loan.
Playmaker Nico Gaitan may still leave in the coming weeks, with Zenit St Petersburg said to be interested in a loan move.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Atletico Madrid coach Diego Simeone's touchline ban for the Europa League final was confirmed on Friday.
UEFA's disciplinary panel imposed a four-game suspension for Simeone's conduct at Arsenal in the semifinal first leg last week.
Simeone had been charged with insulting a match official and improper conduct. After being sent from the dugout to the stands, he continued to communicate with his coaching staff.
He served the first game of his ban in Thursday's semifinal second leg as Atletico beat Arsenal 1-0 to advance 2-1 on aggregate. Watching from an executive box area high in the main stand, Simeone later said he "felt what the fans feel."
Simeone will be barred from the dressing room and touchline when Atletico face Marseille in the final on May 16 in Lyon. He was also fined €10,000.
The Argentine coach can appeal the sanction to UEFA, likely next week. Though an appeal is unlikely to clear Simeone for the final, UEFA could decide to defer future games of the suspension for a probationary period.
The ban would carry over to next season, and the next eligible game could be the UEFA Super Cup game in August against the Champions League winner -- Liverpool or Real Madrid -- if Atletico beat Marseille.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Antoine Griezmann sits down exclusively with ESPN's Martin Ainstein to discuss his love for American sports and his hopes of finishing his career in MLS. (2:06)
Atletico Madrid forward Antoine Griezmann told ESPN FC he would like to follow in the footsteps of several top European players and end his career by playing in MLS.
A number of players, including David Beckham, Thierry Henry, Andrea Pirlo, Kaka and Didier Drogba, and more recently Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Wayne Rooney and Bastian Schweinsteiger, have linked up with clubs in the United States in the final years of their career.
Griezmann, 27, is under contract with Atletico through June 2022, when he will be 30, and hopes to one day travel the same path.
"I want to play in MLS," he told ESPN FC. "I'd like to finish my career there."
Griezmann has expressed an affinity for American culture in the past, including working with France international teammate Paul Pogba to have championship rings made to commemorate the World Cup victory in July.
The rings, which he also gave out after Atletico won the Europa League in May, will be made of 11-carat diamonds with blue sapphires and rubies.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.

"[We decided that because] I love the NBA and I like the fact they give a ring to the champions," Griezmann said. "It is different from a mini cup or those watches they used to give. It's something new, something I like, and that's why I did it for the Europa League for my teammates.
"It was my first title and it was very important for me to give them that present. Thanks to them, I was able to win my first trophy, and when it came to the national team, [I wanted to do it because] everyone loves the idea."
Griezmann also acknowledged that he borrowed another idea from the NBA -- the documentary he filmed over the summer in which he decided to sign a new contract with Atletico instead of an offer from Barcelona.
Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James did something similar in 2009 when he announced he would leave the Cleveland Cavaliers to accept a contract offer from the Miami Heat.
"[It was] not because he did it, [but because] I wanted to do it as well," Griezmann said. "I saw what he did because I like to know how things are made, how decisions are made and how they go through that process."
And Griezmann also used James, the four-time NBA MVP, as an example when asked about the dominance of Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi.
"Those are two players who will become legends," Griezmann said. "They are among the best, regularly speaking, but when you come to consider a whole season, they can be surpassed.
"It could be similar to what happens in the NBA with LeBron. I think LeBron is the best player in NBA history, right alongside Michael Jordan and such. However, [Russell] Westbrook can be MVP one year, [James] Harden the next. ... For me, Cristiano and Messi are both examples."
As for his affinity for the U.S., Griezmann said it's because its sporting culture is so different from what he has seen in Europe.
"They have a different mindset," he said. "I love the NBA and the show business aspect of it. I also love American football, and I love [the country] because no one [recognises] me when I'm there."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Steve Nicol and Craig Burley applaud Cristiano Ronaldo for his performance under pressure to send Juventus to the Champions League quarterfinals. (1:08)
Antoine Griezmann said Atletico Madrid "picked a bad night to f--- up" after they lost 3-0 at Juventus to go out of the Champions League 3-2 on aggregate.
Cristiano Ronaldo scored a hat trick, his third coming from the penalty spot late on, as Juve turned the tie around to put themselves in Friday's quarterfinal draw.
Atletico failed to muster a shot on target all evening, and Griezmann said the Spanish side had been outplayed.
Cox: Ronaldo proves the Champions League is his competition
"We never got our game going," the France forward satold Movistar TV. "We picked a bad day to f--- up. Sorry for the expression.
"It was a bit of everything. They were superior on all levels, as we had been in the first leg."
Griezmann said Ronaldo, who has 25 goals in 33 games against Atletico, "is a great player" but had been given too many opportunities by the Atleti defence.
He added: "In the first game, we defended well and he had no chances. Today he had three and put all three away.
It's time to find a way to fix the Champions League -- or start a European super league.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule
"We all feel screwed, me the first. I could not get into the game. It was completely different from the first leg, when I made us play. It was not our day today.
"I remember the game against Bayern [in the 2016 semifinals, when Atletico won on away goals], it was a bit the same. That day, we were able to fix things at half time. Today, we could not."
Atleti coach Diego Simeone admitted his team had been beaten by the better side, telling Movistar: "Tactically they were better, they were better on the second balls, that is why they won the game.
"They pushed us back -- you must congratulate a rival when they play a game like that and you are beaten like today. They were better, and they deserved to win the game."
Simeone praised Ronaldo's contribution, and said he was not bothered that the Juve star had replicated his explicit gesture celebration from the first game in Madrid.
"Cristiano is one of the best players in the world, and it is normal that he appears in games like this as he did today," Simeone said.
"For sure he did the same as I did at the Wanda [Metropolitano], thinking about the fans and showing the personality of a great club like Juventus."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Craig Burley refuses to name Barcelona Champions League favourites after their big win over Lyon, due to their defensive inconsistency. (1:17)
Atletico Madrid are expected to set a new attendance record for a women's match in Europe after confirming tickets have been sold out for Sunday's top of the table clash against Barcelona.
Atletico usually play their home games at the club's training ground but the demand for this weekend's game has seen it moved to the 68,000 capacity Wanda Metropolitano.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.
The attendance record for a women's game in Spain was set at San Mames last month. Athletic Bilbao's Copa de la Reina game against Atletico was attended by 48,121 supporters.
Tickets for Sunday's game were available for free to Atletico members and for as little €5 to the general public. After the initial 50,000 tickets made available sold out, more were put on sale earlier this week.
An Atletico spokesman confirmed to ESPN FC that the tickets have now all gone..
Despite confirming over 60,000 tickets had gone -- 40 percent of which were paid for -- the spokesman said the club weren't sure how many of the club members who had taken up an option on free tickets would attend.
Atletico are top of the league with 66 points, six ahead of Barcelona with just seven games to be played.
The two sides met last month in the semifinal of the Copa de la Reina. Atletico won 2-0 on that occasion and will meet Real Sociedad in the final.
Should every ticket holder attend, it will still be some way short of the world record crowd for a women's match, with 90,185 people in attendance for the 1999 World cup final between the United States and China at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena.
Information from Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Alen Stajcic insists that there is "no complacency" within Australia's ranks as they prepare to take on Thailand in the Asian Cup semifinal.
Stajcic's Matildas earned their place at the 2019 World Cup by progressing to the final four of the AFC tournament in Jordan, jumping off the canvas with a late goal against Japan to seal a 1-1 draw and top spot in their group.
They now look forward to a semifinal against Thailand late on Tuesday.
That will be the rarest of occasions -- a match deep in a tournament that should be much easier than their previous hit-out.
Japan is Australia's great Asian rival, ranked 11th in the world and are former world champions. They are also the side that eliminated the Matildas in the last World Cup and defeated them in the last Asian Cup final.
Thailand are continental easybeats.
The Matildas put five past them in a lead-up match for the Asian Cup last month in Perth, and it could have been 10.
The Thais haven't been this deep in a tournament for 30 years, progressing courtesy of a much easier group.
For Stajcic, the trick is to not focus on the opponent.
"There's no complacency on our part," he told AAP. "I've been around football long enough to know you can win 5-0 one day and lose 2-0 the next to the same team.
"We treat everyone the same whether they're America or Thailand or Vietnam or Japan.
"The pre-match prep. The video analysis of ourselves and our opposition. Everything we need to do to make sure we hit the ground running on the first minute will be done."
The Matildas found themselves in a precarious position against Japan.
When Mizuho Sakaguchi scored the opener, the Matildas had less than half an hour to score -- or be knocked out of the Asian Cup.
Sam Kerr's equaliser ensured Australia's progression -- and showed the squad's character.
The result ensured a fourth-straight group stage success for Australia, a sign of maturity and consistency.
The Matildas also finished up top of their group at the last two Algarve Cups and last year's breakthrough Tournament of Nations success.
Now it's about finding knockout format success, which begins with Thailand and could end up against China or Japan in Friday's final.
Beyond "a few niggles," Stajcic said Australia had just one injury concern, Hayley Raso, who has a knee injury and faces a month on the sidelines.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tim Cahill is looking to emulate Pele, Uwe Seeler and Miroslav Klose by scoring in a fourth World Cup.
The 38-year-old former Everton forward is his country's most prolific international goalscorer with 50 goals in 106 matches, but has played little club football for the last year.
It is unlikely that he will start against France on Saturday but he will be hoping his habit of scoring at crucial moments for Australia might persuade coach Bert van Marwijk that he is at least worthy of a place on the bench.
"I've put so much effort into being here," he told reporters on Thursday. "To get on the pitch is one step, but to score would just be amazing. People dream of scoring in one World Cup but to join the list of names who are on there now would be priceless."

- Make your picks with ESPN FC Match Predictor 2018!
- Welcome to the Alternative 2018 World Cup Fans' Guide
- ESPN FC's experts make their picks
- Marvel's amazing World Cup spoilers
- Revealed: World Cup 2018 Ultimate XI
- Fixtures, results and full coverage
- Team-by-team previews of all 32 nations
Cahill has scored five of his country's 11 World Cup goals. His first against Japan in 2006 was also Australia's first ever and his last against the Dutch four years ago was a volley that ranked among the best of the tournament.
Cahill played his first international football as a 14-year-old for Samoa's under-20 team back in 1994, and his fitness regime leaves him in no doubt he could still do a job if given the chance.
"I spent a whole year getting ready for three games," he said. "As a professional, you have got to hit certain levels of physical data, professionalism, that gets you to where I'm sitting today."
Cahill showed his knack of scoring key goals last October with two headers to help Australia beat Syria on their road to Russia.
And if he does get a chance to pull on the gold shirt for a 107th time against France at the Kazan Arena, he is determined to make history.
"If I get on that pitch, I know that I'm going to make sure I'm going to try and make something happen," he said.
"After that, I'm in a different world. I'd love to join the greats [and] to do something special for my country."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Graham Arnold got the statement win he wanted in his first match back in charge of the Socceroos as they brushed aside Kuwait 4-0.
But Australia's new boss concedes improvement must come as they prepare for sterner tests in the future.
Goals to Apostolos Giannou, Tom Rogic, debutant Awer Mabil and an early own goal helped the Socceroos skittle an ordinary Kuwait side at Kuwait Sports Club Stadium on Monday.
"We still need the icing in the cake which is the finishing," Arnold conceded.
"The execution will come. The performance was promising but we've still got a lot of work to do."
The Socceroos entered the match promising to win and a performance to please the new manager, who spent two international windows preparing his team for the occasion.
The 2018-19 A-League season is starting to take shape. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

In a one-sided encounter, Australia denied Kuwait a shot on goal until the 50th minute.
Rogic was clearly best afield with the Celtic playmaker at the heart of everything positive for Arnold's side.
Massimo Luongo and Jackson Irvine controlled the tempo in midfield, Aziz Behich worked tirelessly on the left and Robbie Kruse returned to Socceroos form after his World Cup to forget.
The Socceroos out-shot the Kuwaitis 17-5 and should have bulged the net more often.
Arnold, who said he spent his time in camp working on attack to build on previous coach Bert van Marwijk's defensive platform, said he saw "a lot of positives."
"You can see they've worked hard on the rotations and on the penetration and pressing," he said.
"As a coach the most difficult thing is to get the ball into goal-scoring positions to score. We did that very well tonight.
"I can only judge the players' performance by what we practised at training and if I do that I give the boys a good mark.
"But we have a lot of work to do and I can't wait for the next camp."
Arnold made four changes from Australia's last outing -- a 2-0 defeat by Peru at the World Cup -- with Danny Vukovic, Massimo Luongo, Jackson Irvine and Giannou restored to the starting line-up.
Ibrahim began the rout when he headed Robbie Kruse's curling cross expertly into his own net.
On the 20-minute mark Giannou scored his first international goal with a smart finish following a defensive mix-up.
Whether it was the comfortable scoreline or the humidity, the Socceroos sat back on their lead before the introduction of substitutes Daniel Arzani and Tomi Juric on the hour added spark.
Luongo set up the third goal with a strong tackle, releasing Rogic to score his one-on-one chance.
With Mabil -- along with his great mate Thomas Deng -- thrown on late, there was just enough time left for the former Adelaide United winger to finish off a fine move and add some extra gloss to the scoreline.
Next for Australia are home ties against South Korea -- a rematch of the 2015 Asian Cup final -- and Lebanon next month.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?

He set foot in Australia for the first time earlier this week but Martin Boyle could be the latest Socceroos debutant come Saturday.
The 25-year-old Scottish-born Boyle has swapped tartan for green and gold and is in the mix to line up for Graham Arnold's men against South Korea in Brisbane.
Boyle, whose father Graeme was born in Sydney, was a part of the national team squad for Arnold's first match in charge against Kuwait last month but was ineligible as he had yet to receive his Australian passport.
A pacey winger who can also play centre-forward, Boyle has been marked as worthy of pursuit by Arnold in his quest to solve the Socceroos' goal scoring concerns.
A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!


He set foot in Australia for the first time earlier this week but Martin Boyle could be the latest Socceroos debutant come Saturday.
The 25-year-old Scottish-born Boyle has swapped tartan for green and gold and is in the mix to line up for Graham Arnold's men against South Korea in Brisbane.
Boyle, whose father Graeme was born in Sydney, was a part of the national team squad for Arnold's first match in charge against Kuwait last month but was ineligible as he had yet to receive his Australian passport.
A pacey winger who can also play centre-forward, Boyle has been marked as worthy of pursuit by Arnold in his quest to solve the Socceroos' goal scoring concerns.
A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

He set foot in Australia for the first time earlier this week but Martin Boyle could be the latest Socceroos debutant come Saturday.
The 25-year-old Scottish-born Boyle has swapped tartan for green and gold and is in the mix to line up for Graham Arnold's men against South Korea in Brisbane.
Boyle, whose father Graeme was born in Sydney, was a part of the national team squad for Arnold's first match in charge against Kuwait last month but was ineligible as he had yet to receive his Australian passport.
A pacey winger who can also play centre-forward, Boyle has been marked as worthy of pursuit by Arnold in his quest to solve the Socceroos' goal scoring concerns.
A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

The 25-year-old Scottish-born Boyle has swapped tartan for green and gold and is in the mix to line up for Graham Arnold's men against South Korea in Brisbane.
Boyle, whose father Graeme was born in Sydney, was a part of the national team squad for Arnold's first match in charge against Kuwait last month but was ineligible as he had yet to receive his Australian passport.
A pacey winger who can also play centre-forward, Boyle has been marked as worthy of pursuit by Arnold in his quest to solve the Socceroos' goal scoring concerns.
A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

Boyle, whose father Graeme was born in Sydney, was a part of the national team squad for Arnold's first match in charge against Kuwait last month but was ineligible as he had yet to receive his Australian passport.
A pacey winger who can also play centre-forward, Boyle has been marked as worthy of pursuit by Arnold in his quest to solve the Socceroos' goal scoring concerns.
A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

A pacey winger who can also play centre-forward, Boyle has been marked as worthy of pursuit by Arnold in his quest to solve the Socceroos' goal scoring concerns.
A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!
Boyle has scored four goals and provided three assists in 11 Scottish Premier League games this season for Hibernian -- where he plays alongside fellow Socceroos Mark Milligan and Jamie MacLaren.
"Being in the third division of Scotland years ago to the climb that's been happening, it's quite unimaginable," Boyle said on Tuesday.
"If you'd asked me a few years ago if this opportunity would ever happen, from the position I was in or where I was, I'd probably have laughed at you.
"It's been a huge rise for myself and long may it continue."
Boyle will get his first look at Suncorp Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, though former Brisbane Roar striker MacLaren has already been talking up the venue.
"He's saying he's got a statue outside it. He's giving it the big one," Boyle said.
"It'll be great to see it for myself and ideally make an impression."Martin Boyle, 25, set foot in Australia for the first time earlier this week. Chris Hyde/Getty ImagesMilligan, who joined Hibs in August, said there's no fears over Boyle's loyalties.
"He's coming into training and telling me about Aussie customs," Milligan said.
"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

Boyle has scored four goals and provided three assists in 11 Scottish Premier League games this season for Hibernian -- where he plays alongside fellow Socceroos Mark Milligan and Jamie MacLaren.
"Being in the third division of Scotland years ago to the climb that's been happening, it's quite unimaginable," Boyle said on Tuesday.
"If you'd asked me a few years ago if this opportunity would ever happen, from the position I was in or where I was, I'd probably have laughed at you.
"It's been a huge rise for myself and long may it continue."
Boyle will get his first look at Suncorp Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, though former Brisbane Roar striker MacLaren has already been talking up the venue.
"He's saying he's got a statue outside it. He's giving it the big one," Boyle said.
"It'll be great to see it for myself and ideally make an impression."Martin Boyle, 25, set foot in Australia for the first time earlier this week. Chris Hyde/Getty ImagesMilligan, who joined Hibs in August, said there's no fears over Boyle's loyalties.
"He's coming into training and telling me about Aussie customs," Milligan said.
"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

"Being in the third division of Scotland years ago to the climb that's been happening, it's quite unimaginable," Boyle said on Tuesday.
"If you'd asked me a few years ago if this opportunity would ever happen, from the position I was in or where I was, I'd probably have laughed at you.
"It's been a huge rise for myself and long may it continue."
Boyle will get his first look at Suncorp Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, though former Brisbane Roar striker MacLaren has already been talking up the venue.
"He's saying he's got a statue outside it. He's giving it the big one," Boyle said.
"It'll be great to see it for myself and ideally make an impression."Martin Boyle, 25, set foot in Australia for the first time earlier this week. Chris Hyde/Getty ImagesMilligan, who joined Hibs in August, said there's no fears over Boyle's loyalties.
"He's coming into training and telling me about Aussie customs," Milligan said.
"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

"If you'd asked me a few years ago if this opportunity would ever happen, from the position I was in or where I was, I'd probably have laughed at you.
"It's been a huge rise for myself and long may it continue."
Boyle will get his first look at Suncorp Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, though former Brisbane Roar striker MacLaren has already been talking up the venue.
"He's saying he's got a statue outside it. He's giving it the big one," Boyle said.
"It'll be great to see it for myself and ideally make an impression."Martin Boyle, 25, set foot in Australia for the first time earlier this week. Chris Hyde/Getty ImagesMilligan, who joined Hibs in August, said there's no fears over Boyle's loyalties.
"He's coming into training and telling me about Aussie customs," Milligan said.
"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

"It's been a huge rise for myself and long may it continue."
Boyle will get his first look at Suncorp Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, though former Brisbane Roar striker MacLaren has already been talking up the venue.
"He's saying he's got a statue outside it. He's giving it the big one," Boyle said.
"It'll be great to see it for myself and ideally make an impression."Martin Boyle, 25, set foot in Australia for the first time earlier this week. Chris Hyde/Getty ImagesMilligan, who joined Hibs in August, said there's no fears over Boyle's loyalties.
"He's coming into training and telling me about Aussie customs," Milligan said.
"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

Boyle will get his first look at Suncorp Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, though former Brisbane Roar striker MacLaren has already been talking up the venue.
"He's saying he's got a statue outside it. He's giving it the big one," Boyle said.
"It'll be great to see it for myself and ideally make an impression."Martin Boyle, 25, set foot in Australia for the first time earlier this week. Chris Hyde/Getty ImagesMilligan, who joined Hibs in August, said there's no fears over Boyle's loyalties.
"He's coming into training and telling me about Aussie customs," Milligan said.
"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

"He's saying he's got a statue outside it. He's giving it the big one," Boyle said.
"It'll be great to see it for myself and ideally make an impression."Martin Boyle, 25, set foot in Australia for the first time earlier this week. Chris Hyde/Getty ImagesMilligan, who joined Hibs in August, said there's no fears over Boyle's loyalties.
"He's coming into training and telling me about Aussie customs," Milligan said.
"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

"It'll be great to see it for myself and ideally make an impression."
Milligan, who joined Hibs in August, said there's no fears over Boyle's loyalties.
"He's coming into training and telling me about Aussie customs," Milligan said.
"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

Milligan, who joined Hibs in August, said there's no fears over Boyle's loyalties.
"He's coming into training and telling me about Aussie customs," Milligan said.
"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

"He's coming into training and telling me about Aussie customs," Milligan said.
"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

"He's very keen and has definitely done his homework.
"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

"He's a very exciting young player, very positive, likes to get at goal and definitely has goals in him."
Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

Boyle's father was crying tears of pride when his son left Scotland and while his dad couldn't get time off from his lorry driving job to come to Australia, he expects he'll be watching back home should his son get the nod.
There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

There's also no concerns about having to practice the national anthem.
"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.

"I know it. I'm all over it," Boyle said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?

Mark Milligan couldn't be happier to be finally achieving his ambition of playing professionally in the United Kingdom.
The 33-year-old contemplated retirement after the World Cup in Russia but realised a life-long goal in August when he signed with Scottish Premiership club Hibernian.
A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!


Mark Milligan couldn't be happier to be finally achieving his ambition of playing professionally in the United Kingdom.
The 33-year-old contemplated retirement after the World Cup in Russia but realised a life-long goal in August when he signed with Scottish Premiership club Hibernian.
A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

Mark Milligan couldn't be happier to be finally achieving his ambition of playing professionally in the United Kingdom.
The 33-year-old contemplated retirement after the World Cup in Russia but realised a life-long goal in August when he signed with Scottish Premiership club Hibernian.
A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

The 33-year-old contemplated retirement after the World Cup in Russia but realised a life-long goal in August when he signed with Scottish Premiership club Hibernian.
A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

A-League



A-League Table
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.


Australia Home
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!
After spells in China, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, playing in a professional European league has been everything Milligan hoped for.
"I'm loving my football at the minute," Milligan, who has made an instant impact for Hibs including captaining the club last weekend against Aberdeen, said.
"It took me a long time to get into the U.K. and even getting Hibs across the line wasn't really smooth sailing in terms of visas and things like that.
"Getting it done and now being over there, being in that environment day-to-day, it's been very enjoyable."Hibernian's Mark Milligan, 33, is enjoying life in the Scottish Premiership. Ian MacNicol/Getty ImagesMilligan's move to Hibernian has also ensured he's fully match fit for Australia's friendlies against South Korea and Lebanon.
Those games are the final chance Milligan and company to impress Arnold before the Asian Cup title defence in the United Arab Emirates in January.
Milligan was part of the successful 2015 Asian Cup campaign -- which included victory over South Korea in the final but defeat to the same opposition in a group stage fixture at Suncorp Stadium.
"We've got a score to settle, they did us here in the group stages," Milligan said.
"We all get extremely excited when we get the chance to come back to Australia and play.
"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."

After spells in China, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, playing in a professional European league has been everything Milligan hoped for.
"I'm loving my football at the minute," Milligan, who has made an instant impact for Hibs including captaining the club last weekend against Aberdeen, said.
"It took me a long time to get into the U.K. and even getting Hibs across the line wasn't really smooth sailing in terms of visas and things like that.
"Getting it done and now being over there, being in that environment day-to-day, it's been very enjoyable."Hibernian's Mark Milligan, 33, is enjoying life in the Scottish Premiership. Ian MacNicol/Getty ImagesMilligan's move to Hibernian has also ensured he's fully match fit for Australia's friendlies against South Korea and Lebanon.
Those games are the final chance Milligan and company to impress Arnold before the Asian Cup title defence in the United Arab Emirates in January.
Milligan was part of the successful 2015 Asian Cup campaign -- which included victory over South Korea in the final but defeat to the same opposition in a group stage fixture at Suncorp Stadium.
"We've got a score to settle, they did us here in the group stages," Milligan said.
"We all get extremely excited when we get the chance to come back to Australia and play.
"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."

"I'm loving my football at the minute," Milligan, who has made an instant impact for Hibs including captaining the club last weekend against Aberdeen, said.
"It took me a long time to get into the U.K. and even getting Hibs across the line wasn't really smooth sailing in terms of visas and things like that.
"Getting it done and now being over there, being in that environment day-to-day, it's been very enjoyable."Hibernian's Mark Milligan, 33, is enjoying life in the Scottish Premiership. Ian MacNicol/Getty ImagesMilligan's move to Hibernian has also ensured he's fully match fit for Australia's friendlies against South Korea and Lebanon.
Those games are the final chance Milligan and company to impress Arnold before the Asian Cup title defence in the United Arab Emirates in January.
Milligan was part of the successful 2015 Asian Cup campaign -- which included victory over South Korea in the final but defeat to the same opposition in a group stage fixture at Suncorp Stadium.
"We've got a score to settle, they did us here in the group stages," Milligan said.
"We all get extremely excited when we get the chance to come back to Australia and play.
"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."

"It took me a long time to get into the U.K. and even getting Hibs across the line wasn't really smooth sailing in terms of visas and things like that.
"Getting it done and now being over there, being in that environment day-to-day, it's been very enjoyable."Hibernian's Mark Milligan, 33, is enjoying life in the Scottish Premiership. Ian MacNicol/Getty ImagesMilligan's move to Hibernian has also ensured he's fully match fit for Australia's friendlies against South Korea and Lebanon.
Those games are the final chance Milligan and company to impress Arnold before the Asian Cup title defence in the United Arab Emirates in January.
Milligan was part of the successful 2015 Asian Cup campaign -- which included victory over South Korea in the final but defeat to the same opposition in a group stage fixture at Suncorp Stadium.
"We've got a score to settle, they did us here in the group stages," Milligan said.
"We all get extremely excited when we get the chance to come back to Australia and play.
"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."

"Getting it done and now being over there, being in that environment day-to-day, it's been very enjoyable."
Milligan's move to Hibernian has also ensured he's fully match fit for Australia's friendlies against South Korea and Lebanon.
Those games are the final chance Milligan and company to impress Arnold before the Asian Cup title defence in the United Arab Emirates in January.
Milligan was part of the successful 2015 Asian Cup campaign -- which included victory over South Korea in the final but defeat to the same opposition in a group stage fixture at Suncorp Stadium.
"We've got a score to settle, they did us here in the group stages," Milligan said.
"We all get extremely excited when we get the chance to come back to Australia and play.
"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."

Milligan's move to Hibernian has also ensured he's fully match fit for Australia's friendlies against South Korea and Lebanon.
Those games are the final chance Milligan and company to impress Arnold before the Asian Cup title defence in the United Arab Emirates in January.
Milligan was part of the successful 2015 Asian Cup campaign -- which included victory over South Korea in the final but defeat to the same opposition in a group stage fixture at Suncorp Stadium.
"We've got a score to settle, they did us here in the group stages," Milligan said.
"We all get extremely excited when we get the chance to come back to Australia and play.
"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."

Those games are the final chance Milligan and company to impress Arnold before the Asian Cup title defence in the United Arab Emirates in January.
Milligan was part of the successful 2015 Asian Cup campaign -- which included victory over South Korea in the final but defeat to the same opposition in a group stage fixture at Suncorp Stadium.
"We've got a score to settle, they did us here in the group stages," Milligan said.
"We all get extremely excited when we get the chance to come back to Australia and play.
"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."

Milligan was part of the successful 2015 Asian Cup campaign -- which included victory over South Korea in the final but defeat to the same opposition in a group stage fixture at Suncorp Stadium.
"We've got a score to settle, they did us here in the group stages," Milligan said.
"We all get extremely excited when we get the chance to come back to Australia and play.
"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."

"We've got a score to settle, they did us here in the group stages," Milligan said.
"We all get extremely excited when we get the chance to come back to Australia and play.
"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."

"We all get extremely excited when we get the chance to come back to Australia and play.
"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."

"I hope the fans feel the same and come out in big numbers."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Former Socceroos captain Craig Foster will meet with world body FIFA armed with more than 50,000 petition signatures demanding the release of detained football player Hakeem al-Araibi.
Professional Footballers Australia (PFA) representative Foster will hold talks with FIFA general secretary Fatma Samoura at the world body's Zurich headquarters on Monday night in his campaign to secure Hakeem's release from a Thai prison. Al-Araibi has been detained in Bangkok for the past two months while the Bahrain government prepares an official request for his extradition over a 2012 police station attack.
His 60-day detention expires on Feb. 8. Amnesty International first launched a petition with an initial target of 20,000 signatures to mount pressure on Thailand authorities to release the former Bahraini footballer. Al-Araibi was granted refugee status by Australia in 2014 and plays for semi-professional Pascoe Vale Football Club in Melbourne.
Bahrain sentenced him to 10 years jail in absentia. Amnesty International claimed al-Araibi will be imprisoned and tortured if Thailand sends him back to Bahrain. Al-Araibi was detained in Thailand after Bahraini authorities initiated an INTERPOL red notice while he was on holiday in the country with his wife. Foster has led calls for al-Araibi's release after visiting the player in Thailand.
He said last week it was a seminal case to test the implementation of FIFA's recently adopted human rights policy which demands it use "maximum leverage" with stakeholders. He believed FIFA should threaten Bahrain with sporting sanctions if it proceeded with the extradition and also consider measures against Thailand.
"Mr Foster, who has been leading calls to #SaveHakeem, is carrying some 50,000 petition signatures and supporting documents that demand his immediate release," a PFA statement said before the FIFA meeting.
"Mr al-Araibi has been detained in a Bangkok detention centre for two months, facing imminent extradition to Bahrain, in a severe violation of international law and his human rights. "After a week-long visit to Bangkok in which he met with Mr al-Araibi and senior Thai and Australian government officials, Mr Foster will unveil details of obligations before football authorities who are under increasing international pressure to intervene in what is a major litmus test of FIFA's recently-adopted human rights policy. "Given updates obtained on the ground in Bangkok, the matter is now extremely urgent."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
A Thai court ordered the release of refugee footballer Hakeem al-Araibi on Monday after prosecutors said they were no longer seeking his extradition to Bahrain.
Court spokesman Suriyan Hongvilai said Al-Araibi, who lives and plays football in Australia, was being processed for release.
On Monday, prosecutors submitted to court a request to withdraw the case to extradite Al-Araibi to Bahrain, where he faces a 10-year prison sentence for an arson attack that damaged a police station.
He has denied the charge and said the case, which has attracted worldwide attention, is politically motivated.
Prosecutors made the decision after Thailand's foreign ministry sent a letter on Monday morning indicating that Bahrain had withdrawn its request for Al-Araibi, Chatchom Akapin, director general of the attorney general office's international affairs department, said.
Officials in Bahrain did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Monday.
The state-run Bahrain News Agency (BNA) reported on Sunday that Prime Minister Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa had a phone call with Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, but offered no details of their discussions.
Separately, BNA said Bahrain's Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa had met Thailand's foreign minister, who was visiting the island, on Sunday. Again, no specific details of the talks were given.
In a statement, world players' union FIFPro said it was delighted that Al-Araibi had been released.
"We trust Hakeem can now live in peace in Australia and, as a protected refugee, regain his lawful right to travel without fear," the statement said.
"We salute the tireless campaigning of Craig Foster and Professional Footballers Australia to secure Hakeem's release.
"We also recognise the solidarity shown by scores of football players who helped raise awareness about his wrongful detention."
Al-Araibi, 25, a former Bahrain national team player, has said he fled his home country due to political repression. He has been living in Melbourne, where he plays for a semi-professional team.
His supporters have said he should be freed and is protected under his status as a refugee with Australian residency.
He was detained upon his arrival in Bangkok in November, while on a holiday, at the request of Bahrain relayed through Interpol.
Al-Araibi has said he was blindfolded and had his legs beaten when he was held in Bahrain previously. He said he believed he was targeted for arrest because of his Shia faith and because his brother was politically active in Bahrain
Bahrain has a Shia majority but is ruled by a Sunni monarchy.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Adelaide United are tight-lipped on speculation a former Bundesliga manager will be the next coach of the A-League club.
German Marco Kurz is close to agreeing to terms to join the Reds, Fairfax Media is reporting.
An Adelaide United spokesman is refusing to comment on the report as the club searches for a replacement for Spanish coach Guillermo Amor, who departed at the end of the A-League season.
Kurz has had extensive coaching experience in his native Germany over the past decade, including a stint with FC Kaiserslautern in the top-flight Bundesliga.
The 48-year-old, who had a distinguished playing career in Germany, was most recently coach of Fortuna Dusseldorf in the second Bundesliga -- a tenure that lasted just four months until he was sacked in March last year.
Argentinian great Gabriel Batistuta has also been linked with Adelaide since the exit of Amor, who delivered the Reds a first A-League championship in 2015-16.
But Adelaide, hampered by an exodus of players after their title, struggled under Amor in the recently-completed season, finishing ninth with only five wins.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Usain Bolt said it would take four months for him to reach his best after a first football cameo appearance for A-League club Central Coast Mariners on Friday.
A crowd of 9,958 -- around 2,500 higher than the Mariners' average home attendance last season -- turned out for Bolt's bit-part role on his Mariners debut.
"I was a little bit nervous, but as soon as I got on the field I think the nerves went away,' Bolt told Fox Sports. "I wish I had more touches, but I'm not fit yet, but I've just got to put in the work and get up to speed."
The match was broadcast in 60 countries in Africa, Asia and Europe as Bolt's global appeal was underlined.
Bolt played just over 20 minutes in the Mariners 6-1 practice match win over a Central Coast football select side in Gosford.
He started on the left-wing for the Mariners, but his first touch escaped him.
He enjoyed good spells throughout the game, releasing Jack Clisby down the left-hand side and on another occasion beating a man before losing the ball.
Bolt was quickly moved into a more central position, with a number of crosses falling close to him.
He narrowly failed to reach a far post cross and then had a stoppage time shot blocked.
Bolt said it would be a few months before the world sees the best of him as a football player.
"Oh my God, probably four or five months properly [to see him at his best], but to get fit probably two months.
"Then to get used to the touch of the passes from my teammates ... four months, I will be playing like one of the guys."
While Mariners coach Mike Mulvey changed most of his starting side at halftime, Bolt did not come on until 72nd minute.
"The fitness guys have told me he's got a good 20 minutes in him," Mulvey said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Usain Bolt's first goals for a professional football side caught worldwide attention, but while spectators zeroed in on the Olympic sprint legend in his first start for the Australian A-League's Central Coast Mariners, he wasn't the main focus for the men charged with marking him.
Macarthur South West United defender Josh Symons hadn't touched a ball since playing for APIA Leichhardt in their FFA Cup defeat to Adelaide United three weeks ago, and while he said Friday's match against the Mariners was a great experience, their celebrity centre-forward was not his primary concern.
"I wasn't really focusing on Bolt too much, I was more worried about Ross McCormack and also Jordan Murray who I played with before he joined the Mariners," Symons told ESPN. "I knew how dangerous they would be."
While Murray and McCormack were indeed first on the score sheet, it was Bolt's strike in the 57th minute -- his first of two in the 4-0 win -- that sent the Campbelltown, Australia, crowd into raptures, and Bolt had to beat Symons to do it.
"My only thought was to try and get my body in front of the ball; I went to block it and it just went underneath my legs," Symons said.
- Brantz: Lightning strikes twice for Bolt
- 'Too early to tell' on Bolt contract - Mariners CEO
- Bolt's switch to soccer puts him in exclusive company
The MSW team has been assembled to represent the region in its bid to host a new franchise as part of the A-League's planned expansion for the 2019-20 season. Declaring the match great exposure for the City of Campbelltown and a fantastic opportunity to push forward the Macarthur region's bid for A-League inclusion, Symons acknowledged it was Bolt who the fans came to see.
"He's got a long way to go to reach professional level; he can probably get there with the right coaching, but he's a big name and that's what people come to watch," he said.
Reluctant to be drawn on whether Bolt deserves a contract with the Mariners, he added: "There are players that have worked a lot harder and longer and there are probably more deserving players at NPL level, but that's where the Mariners management comes in and what they feel is going to get more fans to the ground."
Symons' teammate Nathan Millgate started the match at right-back and made his mark in the opening minutes when he beat the Olympic sprint king in a foot race for the ball.
Not many people can say they outpaced Usain Bolt, but Millgate was modest about his achievement.
"I think our centre-back slipped over, so I had to come across and cover. I don't think I outran him so much, he took a heavy touch and the angle probably made it look better," the 27-year-old said.

Millgate, like his teammates, had been on holiday for almost three weeks and had little notice before his call-up.
He said: "I was told around the Sunday before the match that I was playing, so we weren't focusing on Usain at all, our training sessions were about the shape of the team and how we were going to play."
One of the MSW United players with top-tier experience is midfielder Glen Trifiro, who played for the Mariners from 2014 to 2016 and faced his old side for the first time since his A-League days. The 29-year-old was delighted to be part of the event though he said it's the shortest stint he has ever had with a side.
"I had four teammates [from Sydney United 58 FC] in the team and I knew the central defenders from playing against them but everyone else I met for the first time," he said. "We had two sessions to prepare, one of which was really about working out our shape and getting introduced to each other.
"I've been part of some short-term football in my time but this was the first time being in a 'week' team."
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

While he too agreed the focus was not on Bolt, he said the hype was not lost on the players.
"Everyone knows [Bolt] is an unbelievable athlete, everyone in the world knows that. I spoke to [Jack] Clisby and he said Bolt can hardly walk down the street on the Central Coast without getting mobbed.
"The Mariners' tweet of the first goal got something like 4.7 million views. That's a big deal; no A-League player can match that publicity."
As to whether the global superstar has what it takes, Trifiro offered a frank assessment.
"He struck the ball well for his first goal but to be honest he was afforded a lot more space and the match was a lot slower than what he would face in the A-League," he said. "In the A-League he would find the lines a lot tighter, the defence will be sharper and faster. A top-level striker would probably have had five goals that night given the same opportunities."
As well as a playing career, Trifiro and brother Jason -- a former Western Sydney Wanderers and Melbourne City midfielder -- have been coaching children since their teens, and their Futboltec academy that teaches youngsters about passing, finishing and overall awareness is about to celebrate its 10th anniversary.
On whether they could teach the world's fastest man a thing or two, Trifiro joked: "If we got him into Futboltec HQ and had a solid month working on his feet and technique we could get him up to scratch for the A-League.
"They are no doubt doing the same up on the Coast -- I'd have him stay back every day doing the extras, technical, not so much physical -- he can run fast in a straight line, but football and running with a ball at your feet is a totally different story."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
For new clubs Western Melbourne and Macarthur South-West Sydney, work begins today on building the A-League's 11th and 12th teams.
And for FFA chiefs, who on Thursday announced the pair as successful bidders in the hotly-contested expansion battle, there's plenty to do to accommodate them.
The entry of Western Melbourne (WMG) next season presents an immediate challenge for A-League boss Greg O'Rourke. WMG have a stadium; they'll play out of Geelong's Kardinia Park for their first three seasons as they build a football-specific venue near Werribee. But the return to 11 teams, last experienced in the 2010-11 campaign, gives O'Rourke a fixturing dilemma.
There is not long to go in the 2018-19 A-League season. Check out where your team sits on the ladder.
Head to ESPN's home of everything A-League, W-League, Socceroos and Matildas!

"There will be the same amount of matches this weekend with the 11th team having the bye [but] do we start with a full home and away plus finals which is effectively 22 rounds or do we go all the way up to 30 rounds?," he said.
Macarthur South-West Sydney will enter the competition the following year, in 2020-21. O'Rourke said it was "not a perfect outcome" for fixturing and broadcasting purposes but it allowed plenty of time to find the right answers.
"One of the advantages of the staged approach is that now we can enter full consultation about that sixth match, the time slot, the day, with the clubs and the PFA and our broadcasters," he said. "There are many sports, including here in Australia, that don't have full home and away. It's a transitional step.
"Ultimately one of our goals is to go to 14 teams and then you have a balanced home and away potential."
While A-League clubs fought to delay the introduction of new clubs into the league, FFA won support for immediate expansion from its two most senior coaches; Tony Popovic and Kevin Muscat.
"It will bring a real buzz to the A-League for next year. Expansion was needed," Popovic said. "Hopefully they can hit the ground running like the Wanderers did, and bring real interest into the game."
Muscat welcomed the competitive drive that a third Melbourne would bring.
"It's a good challenge for us to get even better, work harder, to make sure we're on top, to make sure we stay ahead," he said. "So many positives. Another derby, another team in Melbourne, great."
Popovic said his Perth Glory side and other A-League teams would "deal with" the bye, putting his support behind more games rather than less.
"There's no magic number. If you ask a coach and players, we want more games," he said. "When you think of the development of the players -- young players need games. That's how we evolve and improve."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The next Lionel Messi could come from North Korea, according to Ri Yu-Il, a coach at the country's solitary football academy.
Yu-Il says the Pyongyang International Football School intends to put North Korea on the football map by propelling the country's players to a level where they can compete with the world's best.
"We are training our students to become super-talented players who can surpass the skills of people like Lionel Messi," he said in an interview with AFP. "For now, I think we should dominate Asia and, in the near future, I hope that we will achieve global dominance."
However, Jorn Andersen, the Norwegian-born coach of North Korea's national team, doesn't agree with Yu-Il.
"No, I don't think [North Korea] can make a Lionel Messi, but I think they can make good players for Asia," Andersen said. "There are many talented players but they always have to stay inside the country. They can't go out.
"When they are always playing inside [North Korea], it's difficult to create better players."
North Korea are currently 126th in FIFA's World Ranking and have encountered problems off the pitch in their bid to progress as a footballing nation. A payment of $1.66 million due to be received from FIFA to fund development had to be withheld because of sanctions in place over the country's nuclear weapons programme.
However, they did qualify for the World Cup in 2010, losing all three of their games in South Africa and conceding 12 goals in a group which featured Brazil, Portugal and Ivory Coast.
It was the second time they'd reached the World Cup, following their appearance in 1966 when they famously beat Italy before losing to Portugal in the quarterfinals, but have already been knocked out of the qualifying competition for Russia 2018.
Of Andersen's most recent squad, only Pak Kwang-Ryong, who plays as a striker for Swiss side Lausanne, is currently playing in Europe.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
BARCELONA -- Barcelona have signed a new three-year sponsorship agreement with Turkish electronics company Beko, with sources confirming to ESPN FC that the deal is worth around €57 million.
President Josep Maria Bartomeu presented the agreement -- which will see Beko's logo move to the front of the training shirt -- at an event at Camp Nou on Wednesday attended by first-team defender Gerard Pique.
The previous deal between Barca and the domestic appliance suppliers was signed in 2014, runs through until this summer and is worth around €10m annually.
That agreement was for Beko's logo to be used on the club's shirt sleeve and on the back of the training kit.
The new agreement, at €19m per year, will be worth more than 14 of the Premier League clubs' main sponsorship deals.
"This association with a leader in their field is fundamental for the club to continue leading the way among world football's elite," Bartomeu said of the agreement.
Bartomeu has reiterated several times that his target is to increase Barca's revenue to over €1 billion per year.
Barca predict that they will be close to €900m in revenue this season, although the figure is expected to be slightly up because of the sale of Neymar to Paris Saint-Germain for €222m during the summer.
Barcelona's main sponsorship deal is still with Rakuten. The Japanese retailer pays around €60m annually to be the club's primary partner, which includes their name appearing on the front of the club's kit.
The La Liga leaders also have a sponsorship agreement with Nike, who manufacture the club's kit, worth north of €100m.
Bartomeu's next aim is to find a sponsor for the revamped Camp Nou, which will be finished in 2022, with the eventual sponsor to be granted naming rights for the club's 100,000-seat home.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Former Barcelona midfielder Xavi Hernandez has warned Ousmane Dembele he must have the right mentality to make the grade at Camp Nou.
Xavi, who spent 17 seasons at Barcelona before moving to Qatar in 2015, says excellent players have failed at the Catalan club because they were unable to cope with the expectations.
Dembele has endured a testing first season at Barca since signing from Borussia Dortmund last summer for a then club-record fee of €105 million.
The France international has missed large chunks of the campaign due to injuries and it's been suggested he put too much pressure on himself following his arrival as Neymar's replacement.
"[Dembele] will have to learn to think faster, in a few thousandths of a second," Xavi told So Foot.
"This is where we will see if he has the mentality. He must say to himself: 'I am a Barca player.' You have to be mentally strong, to have conviction.
"He will need some time. Barca is like a final exam for a footballer. It is like Dembele is passing a Master's degree right now because not everyone can play for this club. Why? Because you have to know things three times more than elsewhere.
"Barca play on barely 30 metres of the pitch. Dembele has a lot of talent, he is very fast, but here, he is not going to have the space he had at Dortmund or Rennes. He had more space, so more time there."
Xavi pointed out that talent isn't everything when it comes to being a success at Barca either, saying that average players have survived at the club "because they had character" while better players have struggled.
"In training, when you saw [the better players], you would say to yourself: 'They will break everything. They're going to be legends,'" he said.
"But no. As soon as they entered the pitch, their legs started shaking, they did not want the ball anymore. And you would wonder: 'What's happening to them?'"
There have been signs in recent weeks that Dembele is finally rediscovering his form from the Bundesliga last season, though, with impressive performances in wins against Girona, Malaga, Chelsea and Athletic Bilbao.
In total, he's now made 13 appearances for the Blaugrana and he's started the last three games, creating goals in the wins against Malaga and Athletic and scoring his first goal for the club against Chelsea.
Coach Ernesto Valverde said he has taken "huge steps" forward after finally proving his fitness and contributing on the pitch as Barca continue to chase third treble in 10 years.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Ernesto Valverde says Barcelona's success in La Liga would be given more credit if there wasn't such a big gap between his side and the chasing pack.
Barca remain unbeaten in the league this season and sit 11 points clear of Atletico Madrid going into Tuesday's game at Celta Vigo. They need just seven points from their final six fixtures to secure their seventh title in 10 years.
However, last week's unexpected Champions League elimination to Roma has brought their season into wider focus. The Spanish press has accused Valverde of mismanaging his resources while Barca's position at the top of the table has been brushed under the carpet.
Luis Suarez moaned after Saturday's win against Valencia that it feels as if "winning the league has lost its merit" because of Barca's European exit. And Valverde on Monday said he believes things would be viewed differently if Barca hadn't streaked clear of their rivals, sapping the excitement out of any potential title race.
"Maybe it's [because of] the position we're in," Valverde said in a news conference when asked if he felt Barca's achievements in La Liga were being undervalued.
"If we were second, one point off the leaders, they would be giving a lot more value to [winning] the league title."
Not only are Barca on the cusp of winning their 25th league title, but they also could become the first-ever side to go an entire season in Spain's top flight unbeaten.
On Saturday, they face Sevilla in the Copa del Rey final, too, with the possibility of a second double in three years a very real prospect.
"Our first objective is to win La Liga," Valverde added. "But if we can do it without losing, that would be great because no one has ever managed to do that. We know that it's so difficult, so difficult, though, and that's why no one has done it.
"It's exciting, but so is the double, which we also have a chance of winning. But I want to say: we have not achieved anything yet. Let's see if we can take another step forward against Celta."
Barca's trip to Balaidos represents their sixth game in just 16 days and Valverde confirmed there would be changes in Galicia with the weekend's cup final in mind.
Ivan Rakitic is the only player sidelined through injury as he recovers from an operation on a broken finger, but the coach said Lionel Messi was among a number of other players who could be given a rest.
In each of the last two seasons, Barca have been beaten in Vigo, conceding four goals on each occasion. In addition, Celta are now coached by Juan Carlos Unzue, Luis Enrique's former assistant, which the Blaugrana boss conceded could help give them an inside track.
"Unzue knows our players and he knows what Celta have done to do damage to Barca in recent years," Valverde said. "In that sense, it's an advantage for them and it could condition the game.
"But I don't really have [those defeats] on my mind, even if I am aware of them. We've already played them three times this season and we know how good they are. They're fighting for Europe and have done well at home against the other top teams this season, like Sevilla and Real Madrid."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Andres Iniesta was brought to tears as he announced he will be leaving Barcelona at the end of the season after 22 years with the club. (1:11)
Andres Iniesta has reached an agreement to sign with Japan's Vissel Kobe, sources have confirmed to ESPN's Jordi Blanco.
Spanish outlet Cadena Ser were the first to report the agreement between Iniesta and the J-League club. According ESPN's sources, the 33-year-old will sign a three-year deal with an annual salary of $30 million.
Hiroshi Mikitani, owner of Vissel Kobe, is also the CEO of Barcelona's main sponsor Rakuten. His participation in the negotiations with Iniesta would have been a pivotal part to close the deal, sources said.
The news came only hours after Chongqing Lifan announced through an official statement that Iniesta won't be moving to the Chinese Super League due to financial concerns.
"Mr. Iniesta is in deep partnership with sports industrial sectors under our club's shareholding company, including sports agency, marketing and sales, and youth training," Chongqing Lifan president Jiang Lizhang said.
"We won't rule out the possibility of deepening future cooperation in the Chinese market, but by no means it indicates that Mr. Iniesta will join our club as a player."
News also surfaced on Tuesday that Iniesta was being courted by clubs in the Australian A-League, but Vissel Kobe now appears to have landed the much sought after Barcelona legend.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Barcelona defender Gerard Pique opens up to The Players' Tribune about how his time at Man United transformed his career. (0:58)
Spain international Gerard Pique has confirmed that his home in Barcelona was raided by thieves this week while he and his partner, Colombian singer Shakira, were away.
The robbery took place in the early hours of Wednesday at Pique's house in the town of Esplugues de Llobregat, which is five miles outside of Barcelona.
The Barcelona defender, who is preparing for the World Cup, had the night off from international duty and was in Cologne, Germany, at the time attending a Shakira concert on Tuesday that was part of her World Tour.
Spain's King Felipe VI, while wishing the national team players good luck on Thursday before their trip to Russia and the World Cup, had a short conversation with Pique asking the defender how he was after the events at his home.
In a video, Pique can be heard confirming reports of the raid to the king after shaking hands. He explained that the burglary had taken place overnight, that his parents were in the house when it happened and that no arrests had been made.
La conversación entre FELIPE VI y PIQUÉ sobre el robo que sufrió en su casa: "Estaban mis padres dentro"▶ https://t.co/Z3hLN9fJgc pic.twitter.com/jh1UlMwPUW

The thieves reportedly left no fingerprints and took luxury watches and jewellery after timing their break-in to coincide with a storm which muffled any noise.
Pique and his national teammates arrived in Krasnodar on Thursday, Spain's headquarters for the World Cup. Spain take on Tunisia on Saturday in their final warm-up game before their World Cup opener against Portugal on June 15 in Sochi.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Colombia defender Yerry Mina described his "difficult moments" at Barcelona and told reporters on Thursday that he's hoping to one day join a team where there is less pressure.
The towering centre-back moved to the Camp Nou from Palmeiras for a fee of €11.8 million in January but played in just five La Liga matches last season and often didn't even make the bench for manager Ernesto Valverde's side.
"When I saw that I wasn't even on the bench, that I wasn't even being considered, I started to train alone at home. It is tough to watch your teammates and see the matches on TV, it was a difficult moment that I don't wish on any player," Mina said in Bogota during a news conference on Thursday.
"There were very difficult moments that were very sad for me because I was really not doing well. There were moments when I thought everything was going to turn out as I had imagined, but it wasn't like that. I felt moments everything came crashing down upon me, I felt that nothing was going right, I couldn't even pass the ball right, or train, I just felt like nothing went right."
Mina said he was also depressed at the start of the World Cup because he wasn't named to start in Colombia's opening match against Japan.
"I was nervous in the first game because I had not played at all, absolutely nothing. I had no minutes," said Mina, who was considered one of South America's best defenders during his time in Brazil.
"To go there [to Russia] and wait and then to have things not turn out, it is so hard. But God gave me the opportunity to move forward and show what I am made of."
Mina started Colombia's remaining three matches in Russia and ended the tournament as his country's top scorer with three goals.
Regarding his future, Mina said he's hoping to join a team that can give him minutes on the field.
"I want to play for a team where there is less pressure and where I can have minutes," he said.
However, he also said that it had been his dream to get to Barcelona. He added that now he will enjoy his vacation and try to make the best decision regarding his future.
"I will always try to do my best for me, for my club and I hope that wherever I end up, whether it is at Barcelona or whether I have to leave, I will do it in the best way, but for the moment I am happy at Barcelona."
Mina applauded the decision by Barcelona to sign French defender Clemente Lenglet, who joined the club from Sevilla on Thursday.
He said: "He is going to Barcelona because of his level of play and because he deserves it. Based on what we have seen of him, he is a player who can be at a big club. All that is left is to meet him, learn from him and wish him the best in the world."
Mina was in Bogota to sign a new sponsorship deal with Fiat in Colombia.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
After a summer of big signings, including Arturo Vidal and Malcom, the FC crew assess whether Barcelona are early Champions League favourites. (2:49)
SAN JOSE, Calif. -- AC Milan coach Gennaro Gattuso hailed 18-year-old Barcelona midfielder Riqui Puig as "spectacular" after his side beat Barca 1-0 on Saturday.
Puig has been one of the stars of Barca's tour of the United States, impressing against Tottenham in Los Angeles and producing a fine second-half display against Milan at Levi's Stadium.
Coach Ernesto Valverde has said the plan is for Puig to continue with the B team for now, but his performances in the International Champions Cup may change things.
Daniele Massaro, who scored two goals for Milan when they beat Barca in the 1994 European Cup final, asked for his shirt after the game and compared him to Andres Iniesta.
"Riqui is spectacular," Gattuso said at his postmatch news conference. "Even though they [Barca] have players that look like kids, the way they handle the ball amazes me. It's the beauty of football. It's like poetry.
"I heard about him a while ago, and about some of the other kids at the club. It's the kind of thing you can't really copy and paste. It's something that takes years to do. It's how they feel the game.
"So it's a beautiful thing, but a very tough thing for others to copy. They don't play with a tactical model, it's more of a common idea. Needless to say, I am very jealous of the Barca school."
Massaro added: "He plays with real personality, always with his head up. We could be looking at the new Iniesta."
Puig only made his debut for the B team in February but quickly caught the attention of Valverde, who called him up to train with the first team in April.
The midfielder made his non-competitive debut against Tottenham in Los Angeles last week, coming on as a first-half substitute for Andre Gomes and scoring in the penalty shootout.
Talking about the praise pouring his way, Puig said: "Sometimes it's best to leave that stuff to one side and focus on the day-to-day. I'm really happy, but now it's time to return to Barca B, which is my team.
"It's been a new experience, something which I've wanted to do since I was a kid, and he [Valverde] has given me that chance. If he calls me up again, I will be ready, but my job is with the B team."
Asked about his conversation with Massaro, he added: "I knew a little bit about him, my Dad's spoken to me about him a little bit.
"He told me he liked how I'd played and asked if he could have my shirt. As for [the Iniesta comparison], at 18, that's a long way away, but matching what he's done is impossible."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Philippe Coutinho has been granted a Portuguese citizenship, sources have confirmed to ESPN FC, easing Barcelona's concerns over the number of foreign players in their squad.
Each La Liga club is allowed five non-EU players but only three are permitted in each matchday squad and, with two days to go until the Spanish Super Cup final against Sevilla, Barca risked starting the season with five.
All three of their new signings -- Arthur Melo, Malcom and Arturo Vidal -- count as non-EU players, as does Marlon Santos, who is expected to leave the club on loan this month.
Coutinho, a January arrival from Liverpool, was also in that bracket, but he has successfully been granted Portuguese documentation through his wife, Aine.
As the two have been married for longer than two years, Coutinho fulfils the criteria to allow him to play in the Spanish league as a citizen of Portugal, rather than Brazil.
The documentation has come through just in time and means Valverde won't be forced to leave one of Coutinho, Arthur, Malcom or Vidal out of Sunday's Super Cup clash against Sevilla in Morocco.
Barca took a similar route with Luis Suarez, helping the Uruguayan apply for Italian citizenship through his partner, Sofia Balbi.
Coutinho returned to Barca training earlier this week after exiting the World Cup with Brazil at the quarterfinal stage.
After joining the club from Liverpool for €160 million earlier this year, this will be his first full season at Camp Nou.
On Thursday, the club announced that the Brazil international has traded in the No.14 shirt for the No.7, which had previously been worn by Arda Turan, who is currently on loan at Istanbul Basaksehir.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
As plans for a European super league start to emerge, the FC crew discuss how it would work and how it would impact European and global football. (5:33)
Barcelona have confirmed that Philippe Coutinho will be out for two to three weeks with a thigh injury.
The Brazil international is set to miss the international break, as well as Barca's game against Real Betis this Sunday.
He could also miss their matches with Atletico Madrid and PSV Eindhoven later this month.
"The tests carried out this morning have confirmed that the first team player Coutinho has a small break in the femoral biceps of the left leg," Barcelona's statement said. "The approximate time of loss will be between two and three weeks."
Coutinho has been a key player for Barcelona since joining from Liverpool last January, scoring 15 goals in 38 games in all competitions for them so far.
His injury comes just as Lionel Messi returns to training after breaking a bone in his arm, and could take part against Betis this weekend.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Nelson Semedo has told ESPN he believes Manchester City will be Barcelona's biggest rivals in the Champions League.
Semedo, who moved to Camp Nou from Benfica last year, said a clash between Barca and Pep Guardiola's Premier League leaders "would make a great final."
"They are doing very well this season and seem the strongest rival right now," the defender said.
"They would probably be the most complicated team, but they should think the same because Barca have a lot of quality and confidence.
"It would be a great match -- a great final or an anticipated final."
Semedo, who said Barca were focused on the Champions League after last year's 3-0 defeat at Roma put them out on away goals after a 4-4 aggregate draw, added that it was "a dream" to play for the club.
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

He said he felt they should have a bigger lead in La Liga this season but warned that arch-rivals Real Madrid were improving after the appointment of Santiago Solari as manager.
The Portugal international hailed Barca teammate Lionel Messi, saying: "Messi is from another planet. He makes the difference. He is the best player I've seen, alongside Cristiano Ronaldo.
"I've played with the best two players in the world, in history. I'm used to being asked about both. They are different, but I prefer to keep the opinion of who is No. 1 to myself."
Semedo backed Ousmane Dembele, who has been linked with a move away from the Camp Nou amid questions over his attitude.
"He is an excellent player, with a lot of potential, and will help us a lot," he said. "He is totally committed to the team.
"Now he is more responsible, and he is showing it on the pitch. He must continue like this, and I am convinced that he will."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Bayern Munich have confirmed goalkeeper Manuel Neuer will be out for the rest of the season with a broken foot.
Scans on Wednesday evening revealed Neuer, 31, suffered a break to a metatarsal in his left foot in the second leg of Bayern's Champions League quarterfinal defeat to Real Madrid.
The Germany international picked up the injury during the build-up to Cristiano Ronaldo's third goal in the 4-2 loss at the Santiago Bernabeu, a result that knocked Bayern out of the competition following a 6-3 aggregate defeat.
Neuer will not need to undergo surgery but will play no further part as Bayern look to secure a fifth successive Bundesliga title, with the club also in the hunt for a second consecutive DFB Pokal.
.@Manuel_Neuer will not require surgery to treat his metatarsal fracture, but he won't play again this season. �� Get well soon, Manu! �� pic.twitter.com/DzVPZ4qml1
- FC Bayern English (@FCBayernEN) April 20, 2017
The Bundesliga leaders currently sit eight points clear of second-placed RB Leipzig with five matches of the season remaining, while they face Borussia Dortmund in the DFB Pokal semifinals later this month.
Neuer told Bayern's official website: "Of course, I am sad that I will not be available to the team for the season finale. Now I am concentrating on getting back to full health as soon as possible. This is the most important thing for me now.''
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Thomas Muller suffered a bruise thigh in Bayern Munich's DFB Pokal victory on Tuesday.
Muller was involved in a collision in the play that led to Bayern's opening goal, and though he tried to continue he was eventually replaced by Corentin Tolisso after 32 minutes.
Coach Jupp Heynckes said the substitution was only a precaution after Bayern's 6-0 quarterfinal win at Paderborn.
"Muller has a bruised thigh so we'll have to see how the injury develops over the next few days," he said. "He could have carried on, but was restricted and unable to give his maximum."
Kingsley Coman, Robert Lewandowski, Joshua Kimmich, Tolisso and Robben were on the scoresheet as Bayern advanced to the semifinals for a ninth consecutive year.
"Of course, everyone is delighted that we have qualified for the next round," Heynckes said. "We dealt with the difficult surface very well, scored wonderful goals and deserved the win."
Joshua Kimmich said the game was not as easy as the scoreline suggested, with the third-division hosts having a goal ruled out for offside, hitting the post and missing a tap-in.
"They played really bravely," he told Sky. "Huge compliments to Paderborn. They tried to play football on this surface."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Bayern Munich CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge has hit out at the German Football League (DFL) after 18 of its 36 clubs voted to keep the 50+1 rule in the Bundesliga, saying it would harm European competitiveness.
The vote, which took place on Thursday, came after a motion tabled by second-tier club St. Pauli, and Rummenigge said the outcome would harm German clubs in continental competitions.
Under DFL rules, clubs in Germany are not allowed into the upper two tiers if commercial investors have more than a 49 percent stake.
The rule, introduced in 1998, guards German clubs against takeovers and, in theory, ensures they remain fan-owned.
Eighteen clubs including Borussia Dortmund voted to retain it with only four, including Bayern and RB Leipzig, voting against.
"It's evident that the league, especially the DFL with its members, is torn," Rummenigge told kicker.
"It causes disconcertment that a second league club [St. Pauli] which, as far as I know, has never played in a European competition, not only takes a prominent but also a dominating position.
"With the vote, the branch on which competitiveness sits has been weakened by a mediocre team from the second division. Don't forget this."
He added that the Bundesliga "has always been very generous" in its treatment of second-tier clubs but warned: "I don't know whether this will still be the case in the future."
Citing investor takeovers at clubs such as Chelsea and PSG, Rummenigge said "a new quality was introduced" and argued that "more quality meant more excitement and better football."
He said: "On Thursday I mentally said goodbye to the DFL, at least parts."
Rummenigge urged the DFL and the German FA (DFB) to "not only look at finances, but also  continue to develop and create visions."
But St. Pauli president Oke Gottlich told newspaper taz that Thursday's decision was the starting point for a "serious debate" on financial imbalances.
He added: "Some say that retaining the 50+1 rules bans investors. That's nonsense. Many clubs have already taken on partners to certain limits.
"We should talk of an exciting competition rather than the rat race for the biggest investor."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ESPN FC's Shaka Hislop questions whether or not the right manager is available to take the reins of Bayern Munich next season. (2:44)
Bayern Munich CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge has finally ended speculation that Jupp Heynckes could return next season, while also saying he is so confident that Robert Lewandowski will not be leaving this summer that he is "willing to take bets."
Bayern hired Heynckes as interim coach in October after Carlo Ancelotti's dismissal, and though he was widely expected to step down after this season, the 72-year-old earlier this month insisted he had never said he would definitely retire.
However, Rummenigge confirmed ahead of Bayern's Der Klassiker clash against Borussia Dortmund on Saturday that Bayern would be looking to hire a new coach before the end of April.
"It's Heynckes wish to retire at the end of the season," Rummenigge said.
But the CEO also said that Bayern will not pursue any coach who does not speak the local language.
"We want a German-speaking coach," Rummenigge added. "That's the way it will be."
Rummenigge also confirmed multiple reports this week that said former Dortmund boss Thomas Tuchel had rejected Bayern's offer to succeed Heynckes and had already pledged his services to another team.
"Our sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic has held talks with coaches and Tuchel was among them," the CEO said, noting that he couldn't say a "bad word" about Tuchel.
"He informed us that he's signed for another club. But that isn't a problem for us, we are relaxed."
Former Bayern legend Lothar Matthaus has strongly suggested that Eintracht Frankfurt's Niko Kovac, a former Bayern defender and coach of Croatia, is a leading contender for the job.
As for the upcoming transfer window, Lewandowski's split from his agent last month added fuel to reports that Real Madrid are interested in signing the 29-year-old, but Rummenigge told Sky that Bayern were not looking to sell the Poland international.
"I know they are well aware at Real Madrid that Robert Lewandowski has a three-year contract with us," he said. "He will definitely stay with us next season at Bayern. I'm willing to take bets on that."
Heynckes had also refuted the transfer rumours in his prematch news conference a day earlier, saying: "I know the Spanish media, there is a lot of speculation. I assume that Lewandowski will break my Bundesliga goal-scoring record in the next two or three years."
ESPN FC's Bayern Munich correspondent Mark Lovell contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Bayern Munich have been dealt a blow ahead of next week's Champions League semifinal first leg against Real Madrid with the news midfielder Arturo Vidal needs surgery.
The Chilean suffered a setback on Sunday in his first training session since he sustained a knee injury against Sevilla earlier this month.
Vidal has definitely been ruled out of the German Cup semifinal against Bayer Leverkusen on Tuesday and he looks unlikely to make next Wednesday's meeting with Madrid too.
"He slipped and went down,'' boss Jupp Heynckes said on Bayern's official website.
"I've just spoken to [team] doctor [Hans-Wilhelm] Muller-Wohlfahrt on the phone. He's had an MRI scan. Arturo has a loose body in his knee. That's preventing him stretching.
"He's already on his way to Augsburg. He needs keyhole surgery on his knee. Arturo will definitely be out of action for a while.''
Prior to missing the second leg against Sevilla through injury, Vidal had appeared in all but one of Bayern's Champions League games this season.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Sven Ulreich has apologised via Instagram for his mistake as Bayern Munich exited the Champions League to Real Madrid on Tuesday.
With the game tied at 1-1, Bayern's goalkeeper Ulreich wanted to pick up Corentin Tolisso's errant back pass immediately after the restart. However, seeing the onrushing Karim Benzema in the corner of his eye, Ulreich panicked, aiming a wild kick and making no contact with the ball, leaving the France international with the routine task of tapping home his second goal of the evening from close range.
Colombia playmaker James Rodriguez equalised to make it 2-2 on 63 minutes, but Bayern, trailing 2-1 from the first leg, failed to score again and agonisingly exited 4-3 on aggregate, the fifth season in succession that the German champions have lost to a Spanish side.
"Words cannot describe how disappointed I am about going out of the Champions League," Ulreich wrote.
Forever and always, #MiaSanMia. 💪🔴⚪ pic.twitter.com/QeINkKaZWF

"We were determined to reach the final and we gave our best and then this unnecessary mistake happened to me. I cannot explain it. I'm sorry for my team and for you the fans."
Ulreich has been deputising for Bayern and Germany captain Manuel Neuer, who hasn't played since September after fracturing his foot. Jupp Heynckes said that when he took over as interim coach in October, Ulreich was "totally lacking in self-confidence and had no standing in the team."
Until his high-profile howler on Tuesday, Ulreich had undergone a remarkable transformation under Heynckes, producing a series of impressive displays and was key to Bayern's impressive run of form in three competitions.
Ulreich's Bayern teammates and the club sprang to the goalkeeper's defence, though, backing him to recover from his error. James wrote: "Head up, we are a team," while Javi Martinez pointed out: "You have saved our butts on several occasions Ulle" and Jerome Boateng wrote: "Head up!!! We win together, we lose together!"
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MUNICH -- Bayern Munich president Uli Hoeness has said Jose Mourinho's "superstar" status has hindered Manchester United's ability to win trophies.
Mourinho led United to the Europa League and EFL Cup titles in his first season in charge at Old Trafford, but success in the Premier League has been out of reach.
The Portuguese coach is frequently the main subject of headlines surrounding United, but Hoeness said the focus on the manager is to the club's detriment.
"You have to make sure that you don't have a superstar as a coach, but someone who integrates into the group," Hoeness told Suddeutsche Zeitung.
"Jose Mourinho is a superstar at Manchester United, but he hasn't brought the club on at all. Everything is always focused on him."
Hoeness brought back his close friend Jupp Heynckes for his fourth spell in charge in October following Carlo Ancelotti's sacking the day after an embarrassing 3-0 Champions League group stage defeat to Paris Saint-Germain.
However, Hoeness is a basketball fanatic as well and Bayern recently fired their coach Alexandar Djordjevic despite winning the German Cup.
Asked whether he had previously dismissed a coach with such a short time remaining in the season, the president said: "The timing doesn't matter. The bottom line is you can only enjoy long-lasting success if the people in charge of the club work well together.
"I sensed that in football in Carlo Ancelotti's case as well. The Bayern hierarchy's teamwork is always the highest priority."
Hoeness said he "grasped every opportunity" to take in a basketball game during his visits to the U.S., watching the Houston Rockets and New York Knicks with his wife.
"Of course, in the past I used to admire Michael Jordan," he said, "but my favourite was Scottie Pippen."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Robert Lewandowski's agent Maik Barthel called recent criticism of his client "weird and unfair" after Bayern Munich's Champions League exit was laid at the feet of the Poland striker by some club legends.
Barthel told SportBild: "You can always criticise players, but this way is out of order. Robert has twice scored 30 [goals] and once 29 goals in the Bundesliga and is then held responsible for the exit against Real Madrid. That's a strange perception.
"It is weird and unfair that so-called experts pin the blame for the exit against Real Madrid on just one player.
"In the past three seasons, he's been playing with a handicap in the Champions League."
Lewandowski came under fire at Bayern after failing to score in five successive Champions League games, including both legs of the narrow 4-3 aggregate semifinal defeat against the holders.
He then denied coach Jupp Heynckes a handshake following his substitution in the 3-1 win against Cologne.
In the aftermath of Bayern's fourth semifinal exit in five seasons, club legends Sepp Maier, Oliver Kahn and Paul Breitner have all been critical of Bayern's top scorer for his lack of goals in the big games.
Maier asked: "Nobody saw him -- where was he in the two games?"
"I don't see Lewandowski enough in these games," Kahn said on ZDF. "He doesn't justify the status that he desires in such games."
Breitner said: "It is said that Bayern need Lewandowski in order to win the Champions League so we have to state that we were twice clearly better than Real Madrid and twice played sensationally -- without Lewandowski."
According to the SportBild story, Lewandowski could still leave Bayern despite Real reportedly pulling out of preliminary talks over a transfer. PSG are a possible destination with his other agent Pini Zahavi eager to broker a deal, while Chelsea and Manchester United have previously been linked.
Lewandowski has an agreement in place with Zahavi until the end of the summer transfer window.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MUNICH -- Arjen Robben has officially signed on until the end of the 2018-19 season at German champions Bayern Munich.
Robben, 34, joined the Bavarians in 2009 from Real Madrid and has won seven Bundesliga titles and four DFB Pokals during his time at the club. He was a member of the Bayern teams that lost the 2010 and 2012 Champions League finals but scored the winner in the all-German showpiece against Borussia Dortmund at Wembley in 2013.
Robben hasn't played since suffering a muscle injury in the opening five minutes of the Champions League semifinal first-leg defeat to Real Madrid on April 25.
"It was really, really painful, it really did hurt and still hurts now, that I had to go off in the Champions League semifinal and missed the second leg. It hurts," Robben told the club website.
"Basically, I'd already like to get started on the new season, to be honest. So next season I'll once again give everything I've got so we have a good season, and hopefully I can be an important part of the team," Robben said.
Robben has followed in the footsteps of veteran wing partner Franck Ribery 35, who also extended his own deal by another year earlier this month.
Bayern club policy means they only hand out one-year extensions to players over the age of 30.
Right-back Rafinha, 32, signed a new deal on Tuesday to remain for another season.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Jerome Boateng is baffled by CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge's comments that Bayern Munich are willing to let him leave for a suitable offer, insisting his sole focus is successfully defending the World Cup with Germany.
Boateng, 29, joined from Manchester City in 2011 and has won six Bundesliga titles, a Champions League, a FIFA Club World Cup trophy and three DFB Pokal at Bayern. Boateng said last month he could opt for a change despite a contract with the German champions until 2021.
Some reports in England have suggested Manchester United are eying a move for the Berlin-born defender, while kicker reported that Boateng preferred a move to Spain over Manchester.
But speaking at Germany's news conference prior to their opening Group F match with Mexico, Boateng said: "Firstly, we are here with the national team and the World Cup is set to start. Everything else is not an issue for me.
"I don't know why the statements were made yesterday. But I say this again, now it's all about the World Cup and that's my sole focus."
And Boateng doesn't believe transfer speculation could affect his form in Russia.
"I want to have a good World Cup, that's got nothing to do with my own situation, that's always the same. I want to play my part so that we enjoy a very, very good World Cup, nothing more and nothing less," he said.
Those remarks came on the heels of Rummenigge telling reporters in Munich on Wednesday that Bayern knew that Boateng was thinking of leaving the club because his agent and former sporting director Christian Nerlinger had told him as much.
"If an interested club comes along and Boateng expresses his desire for a transfer, then we will deal with the situation. However, it won't be a low transfer fee," Rummenigge warned.
Rummenigge and Boateng haven't always seen eye to eye in recent seasons, with the CEO criticising the defender's lifestyle and encouraging him to return "back to earth" after a run of poor form.
Boateng has missed half of Bayern's 102 competitive games over the past two seasons through injury, but they were unbeaten in 29 games this past season when Boateng was on the pitch.
Boateng did have to go off injured after 34 minutes with his side leading Real Madrid 1-0 in the Champions League semifinal first leg in Munich, a tie they would ultimately lose to the eventual 2017-18 champions.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Rafinha is delighted to be back training with Bayern Munich and hopes to continue to righting the recent poor results. (1:25)
Bayern Munich president Uli Hoeness has hit out at the German media, accusing journalists of "disrespectful reporting."
The Bundesliga champions, who return to action at Wolfsburg on Saturday, have dropped to sixth in the table after taking only one point from their last three matches.
Some Bayern players were criticised for their performances during the international break, with pundits suggesting that older stars such as Manuel Neuer, Jerome Boateng and Mats Hummels had become part of Germany's current problems.
That prompted Bayern to hold two Friday news conferences, one with coach Niko Kovac and the other with Hoeness, CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge and sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic.
Hoeness said it was "time the most important club in Germany took a clear stance" and added that they "will no longer respect disrespectful reporting."
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule
"I am lost for words [over] what I had to read about Manuel Neuer," Rummenigge said. "If I have to read 'old boys football' about our centre-backs Hummels and Boateng, then I can only say one thing -- are you serious?
"No-one wastes any thoughts on values like dignity and decency. Polemics have no limit any more. This is true for media, pundits and most of all for pundits who once played football here."
But when asked about Bayern's criticism of Mesut Ozil following his withdrawal from the national team, and of Bayer Leverkusen winger Karim Bellarabi -- who made what Hoeness called a "mentally ill" tackle on Rafinha -- the president said he should have chosen his words more carefully.
"In general, there is a difference between a statement I make right after a match and those you write a day or two after the match," he told the news conference.
"Sometimes you are emotional and excited. I should not have said mentally ill, for instance."
Rummenigge, citing the first article of the German Constitution, said: "The dignity of humans is inviolable. I am not sure if there are different laws for football, at least in certain media. But we at Bayern Munich will no longer accept it this way."
Hoeness responded to criticism that Juan Bernat's last-minute transfer to PSG had been a mistake by saying: "The weal and woe of Bayern Munich does not depend on Juan Bernat.
"Let me tell you one thing. When we played in Sevilla [in the Champions League quarterfinals last season], he was solely responsible that we nearly were eliminated.
"On this very day, we decided that we will sell him because he nearly cost us the Champions League and I would have loved to hear your statement on what bull---- he played."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Bayern Munich winger Arjen Robben has said there isn't a "single reason" for the German champions' struggles this season.
On Tuesday, the Bavarians edged past fourth-tier club Rodinghausen with a 2-1 win in the German Cup. Bayern took an early 2-0 lead, but conceded after half-time, leading to a nervy finish.
This was their fourth win in a row, but this run has come on the of a four-match winless streak -- which included 3-0 loss at home to Borussia Monchengladbach -- and saw them slip down the Bundesliga table.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
On Feb. 8, a fire at an uninspected youth dorm at Flamengo killed 10 young players. How?


Their recent turnaround helped them climb back up to second, but they have been far from convincing; and Robben is at a loss when trying to understand why Bayern have found the start to this campaign so much more difficult.
"There isn't a single reason why we are struggling a bit right now," Robben told Amazon Music. "We tackle every match with a lot of seriousness. And we must be self-critical, but also remain calm.
"There were times when things were easier. We players also feel that right now and it's no shame to admit that in our current situation."
This weekend, Bayern host Freiburg before travelling to the Westfalenstadion to face Bundesliga leaders Borussia Dortmund on Nov. 10.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Bayern Munich striker Robert Lewandowski has said the team's struggles in the first part of the season can have a positive effect on their Champions League campaign.
Bundesliga champions Bayern trail leaders Borussia Dortmund by nine points and have not won a league game at home since September.
But Lewandowski told Bild he believed Bayern could still achieve great things in the Champions League, which they won in 2013.
"If you aware you must fight in the Bundesliga, the cup and the Champions League, it's different than leading by 20 points and only focusing on the Champions League," he said.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.
"I want the tension to remain high. We all know what happened in recent years once we sealed the league title. You are fooled into believing that you can relax a bit and step it up again in the Champions League, but that's not that easy.
"Sometimes, fighting for everything every third day is better. It's easier to maintain form until the end of the season."
Despite Bayern's nine-point deficit to Dortmund, Lewandowski said BVB's lack of experience at the top of the league could end up being to his team's advantage.
"It's easier to chase and attack from behind than having to watch your back at the top all of the time, especially when you don't have the experience," he added.
On Saturday, Bayern host Nurnberg at the Allianz Arena and head coach Niko Kovac told a news conference: "No matter how, we want to win that match tomorrow."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Belgian police have carried out a series of raids at football clubs and homes across the country on Wednesday, detaining several people for questioning about financial fraud and possible match-fixing, Belgian prosecutors said.
A total of 44 searches were carried out at top Belgian clubs and residences, federal prosecutors said in a statement. At the same time, searches of 13 houses also took place in France, Luxembourg, Cyprus, Montenegro, Serbia and Macedonia.
Prosecutors did not name any clubs or people. Belgian broadcasters VRT and RTBF said searches had taken place at leading teams including Anderlecht, Club Brugge and Standard Liege.
"During the investigation there were indications of possible influencing of matches in the 2017-2018 season," the prosecutors said.
Club Brugge coach Ivan Leko spoke to police regarding the situation and was absent from club training on Wednesday.
A statement from Brugge said: "We have nothing to hide. Everything is pure. Of course, we are cooperating. The investigators wanted to inspect contracts and invoices, which we have given, which will show that everything is clean and in order."
Prosecutors said the searches were related to an investigation launched at the end of 2017 into suspect financial transactions in the top Belgian league, with possible charges of criminal organisation, money laundering and corruption.
"Match-fixing undermines the integrity of sports. The Justice Department is working for a fair sport," Justice Minister Koen Geens said.
Some agents were suspected of hiding commissions on transfers, players' pay and other payments from the Belgian authorities, the prosecutors said.
Some of the house searches were carried out at the homes of club directors, football agents, referees, a former lawyer, a trainer, journalists and at an accountancy office.
"A large number of people have been deprived of their liberty and taken in for a thorough interrogation," the prosecutors said, adding that a judge would later decide who should be held in custody or formally arrested.
The searches abroad were chiefly at offices and residences of people used to set up the suspect transactions, the prosecutors said.
Information from ESPN FC's Belgium correspondent Sven Claes was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The Belgian FA has announced that Marc Wilmots has left his role as coach of Belgium following their Euro 2016 quarterfinal exit.
Belgium, who are second in the FIFA Ranking, were tipped to impress at this summer's tournament in France.
But their form was inconsistent, with the side starting with a 2-0 loss against Italy.
They recovered to beat Republic of Ireland 2-0 in their next match before overcoming Sweden 1-0 to reach the knockout phase.
Marc Wilmots is no longer our head coach. https://t.co/0Qr7trxFee pic.twitter.com/ACRSSsi0hg
- BelgianRedDevils (@BelRedDevils) July 15, 2016
A resounding 4-0 victory over Hungary set them up against Wales in the last eight, where they suffered a shock 3-1 loss.
A statement on the Belgian FA's official website read: "The Royal Belgian Football Association have made an agreement with Marc Wilmots to end his contract, that lasted until 2018.
"We would like to thank Marc Wilmots for his work during the last four years.
"With Marc Wilmots as a head coach, the Red Devils have climbed from the 54th position to the top of the FIFA World Ranking. He managed to win 34 games out of 51, including eight draws. Above all, the fans have reinstalled their love for the Belgian Red Devils during this period.
"The RBFA's Technical Commission have made an evaluation of the recent UEFA Euro 2016 and have declared that the intended goals have not been reached.
"There is a common sense that the team needs a new impulse to lead this group towards a top result at a major tournament.
"The Belgian FA will immediately start the procedure to find a new head coach, in a transparent way. The idea is to start the upcoming games in September with a new coach, beginning with an international friendly game in Brussels against Spain on the 1st of September."
There was also a statement from Wilmots on the RBFA website on Friday.
He said: "Today, we have mutually agreed to turn the page. I would like to thank all of you: supporters, players and staff.
"During the past four years, we have accomplished great things: from 54th to the first place in the FIFA rankings...two qualifications as group winners...two quarterfinals...we have built a quality group, on (a) football and human level...enthusiastic supporters for the Belgian Red Devils...(and) we have put Belgium on the world map again.
"We can be proud of what we have achieved all together with the players, our supporters and my staff.
"Thank you all for these four wonderful years."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MOSCOW -- Friday's World Cup quarterfinal against Brazil in Kazan is a defining game for Belgium's talented generation of players, said defender Vincent Kompany on Wednesday.
"The term 'golden generation' is obviously one the players didn't come up with and it's not something we pay too much importance to," he told a news conference at Belgium's training base outside Moscow.
"The fact that the game against Brazil is defining for our generation is for sure, though. It's not like we've been failing up to now but there is a level above, which we need to achieve, which can be done by a game like the one we are playing against Brazil.
"So, it's a defining game, but not just for us, it's a defining game for Brazil as well. The players that they have ... both teams deserve to be facing each other a little further on in this tournament and not in the quarterfinal."
For years, much has been expected of a crop of players, which Kompany previously captained, including Kevin De Bruyne, Eden Hazard, Thibaut Courtois and Dries Mertens, but Belgium have so far not delivered on their promise, going out in the quarterfinals of the 2014 World Cup and at the European Championships in France two years ago.
But Kompany said they were mentally tougher, mostly because squad members had been winning at club level around Europe.
He said: "It used to be in Belgian culture, and I think everyone would agree with me, we would feel defeated even before a game like this but all these players in our team, who play at clubs around the world, now believe 100 percent we can beat Brazil.
"Whether that's realistic I don't know, Brazil are an incredible team but there is not one day I go to bed thinking 'what if we lose'?"
Asked what he would do if Neymar repeated his much-criticised theatrics from Monday's round-of-16 win over Mexico, where he rolled around in apparent agony on the field after clashes with the opposition, Kompany said: "I don't know. I don't care. If it's going to be a game of individual performances and just that, then let me tell you right now we have no chance against Brazil.
"But if it's going to be a collective performance from a smart team that knows how to play together and fight for each other, then we have a chance and that's the only thing I care about.
"Whatever any player on the other team does will not matter much," added Kompany, who answered questions in four different languages during his half-hour press conference.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ST PETERSBURG -- Belgium boss Roberto Martinez has called the nation's footballers "quite unique" as their golden generation sit on the brink of the World Cup final.
Belgium meet France in the semis in St Petersburg on Tuesday with the Red Devils tantalisingly close now to fulfilling their potential after previously under-achieving with a talent-laden squad.
And Martinez said there had been no secret to success, just the following of a process as team and manager got to know one another's individual talents during his time in charge.
"It's been two years to try and understand these footballers, the human beings behind the footballers, and to try and get a group that shared the same ambition, not just to use the national team to improve their brand," Martinez told a news conference.
"We've strived to be as good as we could be at international level and it's taken us two years to get there. But there haven't been one or two secrets to make it work, it's been common sense.
"It's a group of people who share a vision of making Belgian football proud and achieving something important and these players have done that."
- Make your daily ESPN FC Match Predictor picks!
-  World Cup fixtures, results and coverage 
-  World Cup Daily live: Follow the action with ESPN
- Why has World Cup been full of surprises?
- Ronaldo, Messi finally have rivals for Ballon d'Or
- England must create more chances against Sweden
Martinez, previously manager of English clubs Swansea City, Wigan Athletic and Everton, took over after a disappointing European Championship in 2016 when Belgium were beaten 3-1 by Wales in the quarterfinals.
"Working in the Premier League you are well aware of the Belgian talent. It's not something you need to travel to Belgium to realise," he said.
"It was intriguing to want to be part of this team, of this group, of this generation. I think the Belgian footballer is quite unique -- technically-gifted player with an incredible footballing brain.
"Now a lot of questions have been answered in terms of saying 'this is a team, not a group of individuals'. They've almost made a commitment of trying to help each other to become a high performance squad."
Martinez shot down suggestions Belgium might have played their best game in beating Brazil in the last eight and would find it hard to lift their game again for the challenge of France.
"No, no, I think when you are in the semifinal of the World Cup it's a unique moment in anyone's career and I don't think you switch off. It is an opportunity, almost to try and improve on what we did against Brazil," Martinez said.
"It's great to be facing a team like France because they are very similar in terms of the individual talent they have."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Thierry Henry is quitting his job as a pundit for Sky Sports in order to focus on a career in management.
The Arsenal great has been one of Sky's most high-profile pundits for several years but has also worked as an assistant coach for Belgium since 2016 and helped the team reach the semifinals of the World Cup.
1/3 Over the last 4 years I have had some extremely rewarding coaching experiences in football. These experiences have only made me more determined to fulfil my long term ambition to become a football manager. pic.twitter.com/NOQZzuif4m
2/3 It is with sadness, therefore, that I have decided that I must leave @SkySports to enable me to spend more time on the pitch and concentrate on my journey to achieving that goal. pic.twitter.com/EdC4s8AMaW
3/3 I would like to thank everyone at Sky for making me feel so welcome and at ease throughout my time with them and I wish them all the best for the future. Great memories. pic.twitter.com/k5Ysgr0Onn
He said on Twitter that his experiences in coaching "have only made me more determined to fulfil my long term ambition to become a football manager."
"It is with sadness, therefore, that I have decided that I must leave @SkySports to enable me to spend more time on the pitch and concentrate on my journey to achieving that goal," Henry wrote.
Henry did not say whether he currently has any job offers as a coach. He expressed his interest in the Arsenal job when Arsene Wenger stepped down, but was not one of the final candidates.
The former striker also worked as a coach in Arsenal's academy before leaving in 2016 after Wenger told him he couldn't combine that role with his punditry job.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Belgian prosecutors said on Friday that they had charged 19 people, including two referees, agents and the coach of champions Brugge, with fraud or match-fixing.
Three days after an operation targeting nine Belgian clubs, and raids in seven countries, the charges filed include belonging to a criminal organisation, match-fixing, money-laundering and corruption, federal prosecutor's spokeswoman Wenke Roggen said.
Nine of the 19 remained in custody, including agents Dejan Veljkovic and Mogi Bayat, charged with having set up schemes to hide fees paid to themselves and players, and referee Bart Vertenten.
Ivan Leko, the Croatian coach of Brugge, was among those released, although he is charged with money-laundering. He returned to training on Friday.
"I will fight back. This is not the first time I was on zero ... I didn't deserve this," he told the broadcaster VTM.
Of the others charged, a number are officials at Mechelen and Waasland-Beveren, who played each other on the final day of the Belgium top flight's regular season in March.
Prosecutors suspect that match, won 2-0 by Mechelen, and one a week before when Antwerp beat Mechelen's relegation rivals Eupen 2-0, were fixed.
In that game, Vertenten awarded Antwerp a penalty after a foul committed just outside the penalty area.
Prosecutors say Veljkovic colluded with officials and referees to prevent Mechelen being relegated, although the club, winners of the Cup Winners' Cup in 1988, did in fact go down.
Three months after the national side reached the World Cup semifinals, the news indicating uncomfortably close ties between agents, officials and referees has dominated Belgian media.
Police raided 44 clubs and residences across Belgium on Wednesday, while a further 13 searches took place in France, Luxembourg, Cyprus, Montenegro, Serbia and Macedonia.
Among the nine clubs targeted were Belgium's "big three" of Anderlecht, Brugge and Standard Liege. The homes of directors, agents, referees and jewellers were also raided.
Bayat's lawyer stressed to Belgian television that his client was not accused of match-fixing or corruption, only of money-laundering.
Leko's lawyer said the only issue to be cleared up was a payment dating from 2015, before he was Brugge's coach, and that there was no way that this could amount to money-laundering.
Veljkovic's lawyer, Kris Luyckx, spoke to reporters but did not comment on whether or not his client was guilty of any wrongdoing.
Of four people detained abroad, Belgian authorities have sought extradition for two.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tyronne Ebuehi has suffered a serious knee injury during Benfica's International Champions Cup defeat by Juventus on Saturday, the Portuguese giants confirmed on Monday.
A statement published on Benfica's website confirmed that the Nigeria international has suffered damage to his left anterior cruicate ligament.
The club also noted that the full-back will undergo surgery in the coming days.
The defender, who only signed for the the Eagles from ADO Den Haag on May 19, now faces a lengthy spell on the sidelines.
Ebuehi entered the ICC clash at the Red Bull Arena in the 67th minute, replacing Andre Almeida, with Benfica losing 4-2 on penalties to Juventus following a 1-1 draw.
22-year-old Ebuehi, who was a member of Nigeria's World Cup squad, signed a five-year deal with Benfica after leaving the Eredivisie.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
On-loan Liverpool goalkeeper Loris Karius conceded a late equaliser in his first appearance for Besikstas, a 1-1 draw against Bursaspor on Sunday.
Karius, who finalised a two-year loan on Aug. 25, came out to claim a cross from the byline from Bursaspor midfielder Yusuf Erdogan, but forward Diafra Sakho reached it at the edge of the box before the goalkeeper and tapped home in the 86th minute.
Replaced in July as Liverpool's No. 1 by Alisson, who signed from Roma for a club record €62.5 million, Karius chose to leave amid significant scrutiny for his errors, including two in the loss to Real Madrid in the Champions League final in May.
"[Klopp] told me he would like to have me in the squad because he wants to have the best quality players," Karius said last week. "But I spoke to him and asked him for my wish. It is important to me to play for Besiktas.
"I talked with him for a long time and he understood my situation. I think it was a good deal for everyone. He wished me well but he said he would have liked to keep me."
Meanwhile, Alisson opened the season with three consecutive clean sheets, but he surrendered a Premier League goal for the first time in Liverpool's 2-1 victory over Leicester City on Saturday.
After a poor back pass from Virgil van Dijk, Alisson tried to beat Kelechi Iheanacho with a step-over on the byline, but instead lost possession before Iheanacho set up Rachid Ghezzal for the goal.
"That is his style of play and I think everyone wants him to continue doing that," defender Joe Gomez said. "All the time he gives us that confidence that we can play and it relieves a lot of pressure for us. Everyone has their style of play and we don't want him to change. I think he's confident and will continue to [be]."
Klopp also said Alisson was not entirely to blame for the goal.
"I don't look for anyone responsible," he said. "The final one was [on] Alisson but we should have cleared the situation before. It wasn't a situation where you pass the ball back. We make decisions in a second, and in a second, [sometimes] you realise, 'That was the wrong one.'
"I think that was this situation. To be 100 percent honest, I am really happy it happened, because we don't have to wait for it now."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Blackpool manager Gary Bowyer has stepped down after one game of the new season, the League One side said on Monday.
Blackpool began their campaign with a 0-0 draw at Wycombe Wanderers on Saturday, but Bowyer will not be in charge of this weekend's match in a league fixture at home against Portsmouth.
His assistant Terry McPhillips will take charge of the club on an interim basis.
Bowyer, 47, took charge of Blackpool in 2016 after the club were relegated to League Two and secured immediate promotion back to League One in his first season in charge.
"It has been a pleasure to manage Blackpool Football Club over the past two years," he said after becoming the first manager in England's top four divisions to depart this season.
The club did not specify why Bowyer had resigned in a club statement but suggested time with family was a factor.
"We hope the time with your family will bring you much pleasure and rest and replenish your reserves and strengths in readiness for whatever challenge you wish to take on in the future," the statement said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Launched in 2018, ESPN+ is the American soccer fan's home for a host of professional leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, the UEFA Nations League and the English FA Cup.
Check out the full ESPN+ schedule.
Italian Serie A 
From August to May, 340 matches per season. Moreover, ESPN networks will televise a Match of the Week, predominantly on ESPN and ESPN2 and in Spanish on ESPN Deportes. Additionally, preview, review, and top goals shows will be available on a weekly basis.
Coppa Italia and the Supercoppa Italiana
From January, 24 Coppa Italia matches as well as the Supercoppa between Serie A champions and Coppa Italia winners.
Major League Soccer 
From March to October, the entire MLS Live out-of-market schedule, featuring more than 250 games. Additionally, Chicago Fire home games will air in all markets.
UEFA Nations League 
Beginning in September, more than 100 matches from the new competition, which features teams from all of UEFA's 55 member associations. Pay TV customers with an ESPN+ subscription will be able to access the entire tournament, including 30 matches on ESPN linear networks and ESPN3.
English FA Cup 
From November's first round to the final in May, 79 matches. August's FA Community Shield, the annual game the Premier League and FA Cup winners, is also part of the deal, as are the semifinals and final of the FA Youth Cup.
English Carabao Cup 
From mid-August to the final in February, round-by-round coverage of the English cup competition, which features Premier League clubs as well as those from the Championship, League One and League Two.
English Football League, inc. Championship From August to May, culminating in the playoff finals, an average of 16 matches per month will be shown from England's second, third and fourth tiers, the Championship, League One and League Two.
Dutch Eredivisie 
From August to May, three matches per week.
Danish Superliga
From July to May, approximately one match per week.
Swedish Allsvenskan
From April to November, one match per week.
Chinese Super League
From March to November, two matches per week.
Indian Super League
From September to March, five matches per week.
Australian A-League 
From October to May, culminating in the Grand Final, five matches per week. Plus, one match per week from the Australian Women's W-League and at least one match per round from the Australian FFA Cup.
United Soccer League 
Approximately 450 matches this season, in addition to a USL Game of the week on ESPN3, plus six regular-season games and the 2018 USL Cup on ESPN linear networks.
Studio shows 
ESPN+ is also the exclusive platform for ESPN FC, a daily soccer discussion show, and MLS Rewind, a weekly review of all things Major League Soccer.
About ESPN+
ESPN+ is the premium multi-sport, direct-to-consumer video service from The Walt Disney Company's Direct-to-Consumer and International (DTCI) segment in conjunction with ESPN.
It offers fans thousands of additional live events, on-demand content and original programming not available on ESPN's linear TV or digital networks. Subscription costs $4.99 a month (or $49.99 per year) and can cancel at any time.
ESPN+ is an integrated part of the ESPN App, the leading sports app and the premier all-in-one digital sports platform for fans. ESPN+ is also available through ESPN.com.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The dispute involving the collection of solidarity payments for Redmond, Washington-based youth club Crossfire Premier is one step closer to being heard by FIFA's Dispute Resolution Chamber.
Crossfire Premier is attempting to collect solidarity payments it feels it is owed from the transfer of one of its former players, DeAndre Yedlin, when he moved from the Seattle Sounders to English Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur in August 2014.
The Chicago Sockers and the Dallas Texans also have cases pending before FIFA's DRC as it relates to transfers involving Michael Bradley and Clint Dempsey, respectively. Citing U.S. law, the U.S. Soccer Federation has long forbidden U.S. youth clubs from collecting these fees.
According to Lance Reich, who is representing Crossfire Premier in the dispute, the Yedlin case has now been put on the DRC's docket, with a decision expected to be made in the next few months. The next step is for the DRC to assign three judges to hear the case.
The case has been dragging on since the summer of 2015 when the complaint was first filed with FIFA. Reich said he's hopeful that the case will be adjudicated very soon.
"We look forward to a decision promptly from the DRC," he said.
FIFA rules stipulate that when a player signs his first professional contract, the pro club is obligated to pay training and development costs to every club that developed that player between the ages of 12 and 21.
Additionally, when a player transfers to a club in another country before the expiration of his contract -- as Yedlin did when he moved to Tottenham -- five percent of the transfer fee is to be allocated to the club or clubs that developed the player with what is called a solidarity payment. This is spelled out in Articles 20 and 21 in FIFA's Regulations on the Status and Transfer of Players (RSTP), as well as Annexe 4 of that document.
Tottenham reportedly paid Seattle a fee of $3.71 million for Yedlin, meaning his youth clubs, including Crossfire Premier, would split around $185,000.
The concern that the U.S. Soccer has is that implementing RSTP in the U.S. could result in a restraint of trade and thus violate U.S. anti-trust law.
An additional wrinkle involves the case Fraser vs. MLS, that challenged the league's single-entity structure, but also involved the payment of transfer fees for out-of-contract players. MLS stated it wasn't requiring a fee for such players anyway, and promised not to do so in the future.
More critically, U.S. Soccer went one step further and entered into an agreement with the court -- a copy of which has been obtained by ESPN FC -- that also said it wouldn't enforce out-of-contract transfer fees, and included training and development compensation in that definition.
U.S. Soccer ultimately interpreted that agreement to mean that it couldn't require the payment of training compensation and solidarity payments under any circumstances. The case before FIFA's DRC is attempting to override that interpretation.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
A FIFA investigation linked a referee accused of match-fixing a World Cup qualifier in 2016 to "numerous publicly documented scandals" in the previous six years.
FIFA investigators said Joseph Lamptey of Ghana had "a history of being suspended for poor performances" before being banned for life and typically awarded more penalties than other African referees of his grade.
A common match-fixing tactic is for referees to award penalty kicks after non-existent fouls or handball incidents to help betting syndicates cash in bets on the number of goals scored.
"This conduct -- and its repeated occurrence -- establishes a clear and consistent pattern behavior for matches refereed by Mr. Lamptey," investigators wrote in a document published by FIFA on Monday.
Still, Lamptey remained eligible for World Cup qualifying duty on FIFA's international list requiring annual approval, and also by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and Ghana's football federation.
FIFA did not immediately respond to questions about how Lamptey came to be selected for the South Africa-Senegal qualifier in November 2016.
Portugal's 2-2 draw in Gabon in a 2012 friendly, which included three penalties scored, was among six games identified as suspicious that Lamptey handled before the game that ended his career.
His decisions in South Africa's 2-1 win -- helping the home team score twice late in the first half -- led FIFA to ban him for life and order a replay.
Lamptey's history is detailed in evidence to the Court of Arbitration for Sport, whose detailed verdict to explain why it dismissed his appeal last August has now been published by FIFA.
"This CAS decision underlines FIFA's commitment to protecting the integrity of football and its zero-tolerance policy on match manipulation," FIFA said in a statement.
However, suspicions about Lamptey's conduct dated back to African club matches organized by CAF in 2010, Portugal's visit to Libreville without Cristiano Ronaldo in 2012, and a September 2016 qualifier for the African Nations Cup, in which Cameroon beat Gambia 2-0, the FIFA investigation concluded.
Footage of the Portugal game shows that, at 1-1 close to half-time, Lamptey initially awarded a goal to Gabon despite the ball never even touching the goal-line before it was grabbed by the goalkeeper. Portugal captain Pepe urged the referee to consult his assistant before the goal was disallowed.
"Mr. Lamptey displayed specific conduct and actions on the pitch which were anticipated on the international betting markets by bettors which seemed to hold prior knowledge of goal given by Mr. Lamptey," the FIFA investigative report said.
In his final international game, Lamptey helped South Africa's goals from a penalty awarded for a non-existent handball, and after the Senegal defence was unbalanced by him allowing a free kick to be taken quickly and far from where the foul was committed.
The referee's lawyers argued at CAS that he made innocent mistakes, however betting monitoring experts detailed how the pattern of wagers was suspicious.
From the 12th minute until South Africa scored in the 43rd, the odds for at least three goals to be scored "failed to increase as logically expected."
Senegal won the replayed game 2-0 in November, and eventually qualified to play at the World Cup in Russia.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tim Howard sits down with ESPN FC's Jeff Carlisle to discuss the United States' absence from the World Cup, the team's next coach, Jonathan Gonzalez and much more. (6:22)
Sepp Blatter called United States president Barack Obama before FIFA awarded the 2022 World Cup to Qatar to tell him the U.S. was likely going to lose out, the former FIFA president is quoted as saying in a new book.
Blatter, who has claimed he always pushed for the U.S. to win the 2022 hosting rights, detailed the late change in votes in 2010 that gave the tournament to Qatar in an interview with Bonita Mersiades, a former member of Australia's bid committee.
Mersiades, who has exposed how her country's committee gave bribes to FIFA in an effort to win votes, provided excerpts to the Daily Mail of her new book "Whatever It Takes: The Inside Story of the FIFA Way."
Blatter said that once it became clear to him that the U.S. was not going to win the rights to host in 2022, he and U.S. Soccer Federation president Sunil Gulati gave Obama a courtesy call days before FIFA's announcement.
"I called President Obama. With Sunil," Blatter said. "We phoned President Obama together the night or two before and I told him, 'It is going to be very difficult for you to win.'
"He understood what had gone on. He thanked me for telling him."
Obama had written to Blatter during the bid process, and the pair met at the White House in 2009.
Blatter said that FIFA's executive committee had planned for Russia to win the 2018 World Cup, with the U.S. to follow in 2022.
He said Russia was "a very competent country, a football country" which had never before hosted, and that 2022 would go to North America 'because it was really CONCACAF's turn."
"And America is very good for us," he said. "The sponsors, the broadcasters, the fans. It would help football there after 1994, almost 30 years, and that is good for football."
But Blatter said that he knew Qatar would win after UEFA president Michel Platini told him that his and other votes in Europe were shifting to Qatar.
"Him, [Cyprus' Marios] Lefkaritis, [Turkey's Senes] Erzik, [Belgium's Michel] D'Hooghe. They all went to Qatar. After the meeting with Sarkozy."
Then-French president Nicolas Sarkozy is under investigation in his country for his part in the bid process. Blatter has previously alleged Sarkozy applied pressure on Platini to change his vote in a meeting also attended by Qatar's crown prince.
In the book excerpt, Blatter also said that after the 2022 vote he agreed not to strip Qatar of the tournament after a handshake deal with Qatari leaders that Mohammed bin Hammam would not run against him in the 2011 FIFA presidential election. Bin Hammam ran anyway but dropped out days before the vote and Blatter was elected unopposed.
Blatter said his rival's recusal occurred as a result of an email he sent to Qatar's heir apparent, Sheikh Jassim Al-Thani -- and not because Bin Hammam had just been suspended by FIFA on ethics charges. Blatter said the Sheikh told him: "Don't worry. We will fix it."
"Everyone thinks he pulled out because of the ethics charges. It was nothing to do with the ethics charges," Blatter said. "It was because he was told to. By Qatar. Because they promised me he would not stand.
"Sheikh Jassim was here in Zurich. We were at a meeting, the three of us. Sheik Jassim told him to withdraw."
Blatter is currently serving a ban from all football-related activity for six years as the result of a "disloyal payment" of 2 million Swiss francs ($1.98m) allegedly made to Platini in 2011.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
FIFA vice president David Chung has resigned as head of the Oceania Football Confederation after seven years in power.
The OFC says the decision was taken "after much deliberation citing personal reasons" and means that Chung will also relinquish his role on the FIFA Council.
The OFC executive committee is due to meet on Sunday.
Chung has also been president of the Papua New Guinea soccer association since 2004.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
WELLINGTON, New Zealand -- Amid fresh claims of financial misconduct linked to senior FIFA officials, the Oceania Football Confederation has appointed an external lawyer to lead an investigation into "potential wrongdoing."
The OFC announced the move Monday in fallout from a FIFA audit of the tendering process around a $20 million construction project at its headquarters in Auckland which caused David Chung to unexpectedly resign as president. He also lost his position as FIFA's senior vice president.
The Malaysia-born Chung quit on Friday citing personal reasons, though after FIFA cut funding to Oceania, saying it found "potential irregularities" in the construction process. Chung led the OFC for seven years and his resignation came only two days before the annual meeting of the 14-nation confederation's congress in Auckland.
In resigning, Chung gave up his positions as the most senior of FIFA's eight vice presidents and a member of its ruling council. The OFC Congress decided at its weekend meeting not to appoint a new president, even on an interim basis, until it next meets in June, likely in Moscow ahead of the World Cup.
It said the confederation will be led by the executive committee until an election is held in June. The new president will serve until Chung's tenure would have ended in 2019.
The OFC said the lawyer it had appointed would lead an external investigation into potential wrongdoing and would take legal action if required.
"A forensic audit has been ordered to review, in detail, the processes taken in relation to the OFC Home of Football and the financial processes adopted by the OFC administration in past years," the confederation said in a statement. "The OFC Executive Council has pledged to cooperate with all relevant authorities throughout this process.
"OFC will set up a reform committee to review the current OFC constitution, policy and practice activity."
That committee will be confirmed in June. The statement said the OFC will make no further comment while various investigations are ongoing.
The OFC Home of Football was a project closely associated with Chung, a businessman now living in Papua New Guinea and head of the PNG soccer association since 2004. The confederation announced the project had a budget of $20m, thought to be substantial for a project of its nature.
According to the New York Times, the FIFA audit found Chung and OFC secretary general Tai Nicholas, who resigned in December citing personal reasons, had hired, without issuing a tender, a company to construct the headquarters which had no experience of the work required.
The project would have included an office building, two football fields and other facilities.
Investigators are reported to have found close relationships between the companies advising the OFC on the project and those chosen to complete it.
The Times said all companies were set up shortly before being awarded contracts "with no track record of experience and sub-contracted their works to other companies."
It found a company set up by Chung might have had links to the one hired to work on the project.
Oceania is the sixth and smallest of FIFA's confederations and is composed of 14 nations -- of which 11 are FIFA member federations -- spread across the Pacific, including New Zealand.
Chung succeeded Reynald Temarii, who was forced out of the OFC presidency in 2010 after being caught in a British newspaper's undercover sting into World Cup bid vote-buying.
With important FIFA business pending for the 2026 World Cup host contest, Oceania could appoint an interim member to the FIFA Council to replace Chung at a key June 10 meeting in Moscow. That meeting is set to decide if both candidates -- Morocco and the joint United States-Canada-Mexico bid -- will go ahead to a June 13 vote of the full FIFA membership.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
UEFA president Aleksander Ceferin has launched an astonishing attack on FIFA's plans to expand the Club World Cup and start a new biennial international tournament.
Football's richest confederation and the sport's global governing body have been at odds privately ever since FIFA president Gianni Infantino first floated his mysterious £18.7 billion ($25bn) plan, but that dispute has now erupted publicly.
Infantino had hoped to call an emergency meeting of the FIFA Council this month to force through his scheme for a 24-team Club World Cup that would take place every fourth summer from 2021 and a rolling Nations League that would culminate in a mini-World Cup every second October.
But fierce opposition from UEFA and the leading European leagues has forced the former UEFA general secretary to shelve his plans until after this summer's World Cup, with some insiders suggesting Infantino has already ruined his chances of reaching a consensus by trying to present this as a fait accompli.
Premier League boss Richard Scudamore wrote to Infantino to this effect in his role as chairman of the World Leagues Forum in March, saying the FIFA president's approach "defies all definitions of best practice and good governance."
And now Ceferin has gone even further in a speech to European Union sports ministers in Brussels that did not name FIFA or Infantino but left nobody in any doubt as to whom he was referring.
The Slovenian said: "As long as I am UEFA president there will be no room for pursuing selfish endeavours or hiding behind false pretences.
"I cannot accept that some people who are blinded by the pursuit of profit are considering to sell the soul of football tournaments to nebulous private funds.
"Money does not rule -- and the European sports model must be respected. Football is not for sale. I will not let anyone sacrifice its structures on the altar of a highly cynical and ruthless mercantilism.''
The "nebulous private funds'' Ceferin refers to is one of the main bones of contention between European football and Infantino, who has said he cannot disclose the identity of the investors behind the Club World Cup and Nations League plan as he has signed a non-disclosure agreement with them.
But not only has he refused to reveal more information about where this money is coming from, he originally told world football leaders that he needed an answer before Russia 2018 or the deal was off.
Press Association Sport sources say that Japanese-based technology fund SoftBank is part of the consortium but most of the money is from Saudi Arabia.
Its motives are unclear but conspiracy theorists have already speculated that it is linked to the country's bitter dispute with neighbouring Qatar, the host of the 2022 World Cup.
UEFA is so opposed to Infantino's plan because a 24-team Club World Cup, with 12 of the teams from Europe, would inevitably dilute the Champions League's status as club football's premium product, while the FIFA Nations League is a copy of its tournament scheduled to start later this year.
UEFA, the leading European leagues and the top clubs are also working with the players' associations to try to reduce the amount of football the top players play, not increase it. And Ceferin himself is particularly concerned about European football's diminishing competitive balance, so any idea that promises the top clubs more money will automatically worry him.
He called for help from European lawmakers, which could mean soccer seeking exemptions from commercial laws which protect free trade and movement of workers across the bloc of 28 member states.
"Please help us to put an ambitious initiative on track for the overall well-being of sport," Ceferin said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
A Ballon d'Or for the world's top female footballer will be awarded alongside the traditional men's honour this year, France Football announced.
The prestigious prize has honoured the best male player of the preceding 12 months since 1956. For 2018, a women's award will be handed out along with the men's with a global panel of expert journalists handpicked for each category deciding the winner.
"At a time when the place of women provokes so much societal debate, the arrival of this supreme award is not at all opportunistic," France Football wrote when announcing the initiative.
"It's merely a logical evolution for a discipline that is expanding rapidly. It's a boom that can be seen in the emergence of a number of clubs which are increasingly well structured, the number of registered players, TV audiences, and crowds."
A 15-strong shortlist will be announced on L'Equipe TV on Oct. 8 at the same time as the 30 names in contention for the men's award.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.
"The birth of the Ballon d'Or is a step further in the evolution of our sport, which is progressing well," France international and Lyon star Wendie Renard told the magazine. "It's a step forward. Women's football is progressing and the inequalities are being reduced even if there is still progress to be made."
"I have always wanted to see a woman win this prestigious award," said Brazilian icon Marta, who has been named FIFA World Player of the Year five times.
"It's a step forward towards greater equality to see such an award, which is so important in the world of football, also be given to female players."
The winners of the men's and women's awards will be announced on Dec 3.
France Football also announced the creation of the Trophee Kopa, named after former Ballon d'Or winner Raymond Kopa, a member of the great Reims and Real Madrid teams of the 1950s and 60s, who died last year.
The award will be given to the world's best under-21 player, and will be voted for by the previous Ballon d'Or winners, such as Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi, Zinedine Zidane and Ronaldinho.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Gianni Infantino believes Russia 2018 is the benchmark for Qatar to live up to at the 2022 World Cup. (0:34)
ROME -- FIFA President Gianni Infantino said Wednesday that his organisation would continue examining the possibility of expanding the 2022 World Cup to 48 teams, while conceding that it would be "very difficult" to organise such a tournament in Qatar alone.
Either way, he said, a decision must be made before June, because qualifying for the tournament begins shortly thereafter.
"We already made a decision to go to 48 for the 2026 World Cup, so why not try and see if it's possible for 2022?" Infantino said at a news conference in Rome. "We are waiting for a feasibility study, but I think it's objectively very difficult having a 48-team World Cup if we're only going to hold it in Qatar.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.
"It's a question of geography, it's a small country and you'd need to accommodate 16 more teams and their fans. And so we need to ask ourselves if it's possible to play some of the games in nearby countries as well."
The challenge with that solution, however, is that a number of Qatar's neighbours -- including Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain -- have severed ties with the World Cup hosts after accusing it of, among other things, sponsoring terrorism. In addition, they have instituted a blockade, limiting Qatar's access to flight and naval routes.
"It's true, it's a complex situation geo-politically right now ... but if [United States President] Donald Trump can meet with [North Korean leader] Kim Jong-un, then everything is possible!" Infantino added. "Maybe I'm being naive, but it's worth at least talking to each other to see if we can get it done. Qatar are open to the possibility... either way, we need to make a decision by June, because then qualifying starts and it's too late."
Infantino also defended his proposal for an expanded Club World Cup and a global version of the Nations' League, which thus far have been opposed by UEFA and a number of leading clubs.
"We will continue discussing it with everyone," he said. "It's not about UEFA, it's about 211 national associations. Of course, we will have differences of opinion. Maybe not everybody will agree, but we have to respect the democratic process."
"One thing that amuses me is that in any other business if someone comes and says 'I have a $25 billion deal' on the table, people would say, 'not bad,'" he added. "But in football, the reaction is 'there must be something fishy here.' That's just not true. It just shows how the corporate world is interested in football and FIFA now has a respectable, clean reputation and is investible.
"We're going to discuss this further... UEFA has expanded its competitions for 20 years and FIFA has not. Now it's time for FIFA to do it. We shouldn't be ashamed for generating revenue. We are the only ones who redistribute our revenue worldwide. Everybody else does it in their country or their region and rightly so, but we represent world football.
"If once every four years or whatever there is the opportunity to have a Club World Cup with players and teams from around the world and generate revenue and do it without affecting the match calendar... why would that be a bad thing in principle? Let's talk about it, at least."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
FIFA president Gianni Infantino wants Qatar to have a co-host and will present an expansion proposal at June's congress in Paris. (1:52)
MIAMI -- FIFA president Gianni Infantino announced on Friday that it is "feasible" to expand the 2022 World Cup, but that any plans to do so will need to be approved by the FIFA Congress in June.
Infantino also said that the FIFA Council had voted to approve a revamp of the Club World Cup with 24 teams participating in a tournament to be held in June and July of 2021.
FIFA had already approved of a 48-team World Cup in 2026, but that edition of the tournament features Canada, Mexico and the United States engaged in a willing partnership. Infantino's push to expand the 2022 edition is being forced on hosts Qatar and will require significant changes to its plan.
But Infantino highlighted a FIFA feasibility study that said the expanded format is possible for 2022, so long as Qatar brings on board a regional partner to provide two-to-four more stadiums needed to host the additional games required. The study identified venues in Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates that could be used but said Qatar would have to approve which nations it would partner with.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.
"I think as FIFA, we have a duty to look into that," said Infantino about the possible World Cup expansion. "We have consulted all of our associations, 90 percent are of course in favor of an increase. But it's not as easy as that. We cannot just take [a] simple decision. We have to analyze these matters very carefully. We are working very closely with Qatar to see what proposals can be made.
"What is clear is that if we were to increase to 48 teams, and we will decide this in June, then some games would have to be hosted by some neighboring countries of Qatar. Then together, with our partners from Qatar, we will present eventually a proposal in this respect."
The suggestion is complicated by the current geopolitical situation in the region, where Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and the UAE are currently engaged in an economic embargo of Qatar.
"We know the situation in the Gulf region, but we are in the lucky position of being in football, and in football you can care only about football," said Infantino. "I was very pleased by the reaction of Qatar. It's the first time this idea was shared with them because they were open to it... If it happens, fantastic. If it doesn't, fantastic as well. At least we don't have regrets that we didn't analyze this question.
"So, we will move to the next stage of this. We will explore the possibility of who could potentially be hosting some of the games in the Gulf region and if we come to some conclusions in June, we will make a proposal to the council and of course the congress."
The Qatar Secretary General Secretary General of the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy (SC), H.E. Hassan Al Thawadi, sounded more cautious.
"We're looking at the feasibility of actually applying this," said Al Thawadi. "We're studying all the different possibilities, what actually is practical and not practical. We're looking at the benefits of the tournament, the benefits for Qatar, the benefits for FIFA, the benefits on the game itself."
But Al-Thawadi conceded that the current embargo by some of Qatar's neighbors is "a big, big, obstacle" in terms of co-hosting the tournament.
And perhaps even more telling was when he was asked what the benefits were of Qatar sharing the tournament, Al Thawadi said, "Once I look at the feasibility study, I'll give you that feedback."
ESPN FC's Jeff Carlisle reports from the FIFA council meeting in Miami, which opened the door for a 48-team World Cup in Qatar in 2022.
Meanwhile, a person with knowledge of the talks told The Associated Press that Qatar World Cup organizers are planning to privately resist FIFA's attempts to expand the event, citing political and logistical concerns.
Infantino was more effusive about the revamped Club World Cup, however, saying that the current seven-team competition that is held every year in December will be replaced by a 24-team event, with a "pilot edition" being held in June of 2021. It will replace the Confederations Cup on the FIFA calendar.
"From now on the world will see a real Club World Cup where the best clubs in the world will compete to crown the world champion," said Infantino. "This is important today because club football is evolving, is moving at a different pace in different parts of the world and it's our duty, our responsibility to make sure that we encourage professional club football all over the world. What better than having a real club football, and not a competition like the one we have now. We want to have an exciting competition, we want to have a prestigious competition, we want to have an inclusive competition and we will have this in the new Club World Cup starting in 2021."
The announcement comes in the face of considerable opposition from European clubs. Earlier on Friday, a letter from European Club Association head Andrea Agnelli -- the chairman of Serie A side Juventus -- was published in German newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung, stating that it will boycott the competition. The letter was signed by 15 members of the ECA board, including officials from Barcelona, Manchester United and Ajax.
The signatories said they are "firmly against any approval of a revised Club World Cup at this point in time and confirm that no ECA clubs would take part to such a competition."
The ECA added that any talk of a new competition must be made in conjunction with approval of a new framework for the FIFA international match calendar after 2024.
And after hearing Infantino's announcement on Friday, the ECA issued a statement saying its clubs would not participate in 2021.
"ECA clubs will not participate in 2021 CWC and will asses participation in editions of the competition post-[2024]," the statement read.
In a statement to the Associated Press, UEFA said it "shares the ECA's view that the international match calendar in 2021 does not provide any realistic option to stage a 24-team Club World Cup and that it should furthermore not be played at a time when players should have a well-deserved rest period."
UEFA added that it "supports the views of its stakeholders and has the duty to protect the health of players."
UEFA confirmed "the European members of the FIFA Council therefore unanimously voted against the FIFA proposal.
But Infantino isn't deterred.
"We hope that all the greatest teams will participate," he said at the news conference. "We have held some positive, constructive discussions and will continue with this vein... We'll continue our discussions, but it's our responsibility today to take a decision and we have to deal with organization matters."
Infantino also provided an update on organization of the upcoming Women's World Cup, saying that the preparations were going well. He added that VAR will be used in the tournament, "the same as we did for the men's World Cup."
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
FIFA president Gianni Infantino wants Qatar to have a co-host and will present an expansion proposal at June's congress in Paris. (1:52)
MIAMI -- FIFA president Gianni Infantino announced on Friday that it is "feasible" to expand the 2022 World Cup, but that any plans to do so will need to be approved by the FIFA Congress in June.
Infantino also said that the FIFA Council had voted to approve a revamp of the Club World Cup with 24 teams participating in a tournament to be held in June and July of 2021.
FIFA had already approved of a 48-team World Cup in 2026, but that edition of the tournament features Canada, Mexico and the United States engaged in a willing partnership. Infantino's push to expand the 2022 edition is being forced on hosts Qatar and will require significant changes to its plan.
But Infantino highlighted a FIFA feasibility study that said the expanded format is possible for 2022, so long as Qatar brings on board a regional partner to provide two-to-four more stadiums needed to host the additional games required. The study identified venues in Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates that could be used but said Qatar would have to approve which nations it would partner with.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.
"I think as FIFA, we have a duty to look into that," said Infantino about the possible World Cup expansion. "We have consulted all of our associations, 90 percent are of course in favor of an increase. But it's not as easy as that. We cannot just take [a] simple decision. We have to analyze these matters very carefully. We are working very closely with Qatar to see what proposals can be made.
"What is clear is that if we were to increase to 48 teams, and we will decide this in June, then some games would have to be hosted by some neighboring countries of Qatar. Then together, with our partners from Qatar, we will present eventually a proposal in this respect."
The suggestion is complicated by the current geopolitical situation in the region, where Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and the UAE are currently engaged in an economic embargo of Qatar.
"We know the situation in the Gulf region, but we are in the lucky position of being in football, and in football you can care only about football," said Infantino. "I was very pleased by the reaction of Qatar. It's the first time this idea was shared with them because they were open to it... If it happens, fantastic. If it doesn't, fantastic as well. At least we don't have regrets that we didn't analyze this question.
"So, we will move to the next stage of this. We will explore the possibility of who could potentially be hosting some of the games in the Gulf region and if we come to some conclusions in June, we will make a proposal to the council and of course the congress."
The Qatar Secretary General Secretary General of the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy (SC), H.E. Hassan Al Thawadi, sounded more cautious.
"We're looking at the feasibility of actually applying this," said Al Thawadi. "We're studying all the different possibilities, what actually is practical and not practical. We're looking at the benefits of the tournament, the benefits for Qatar, the benefits for FIFA, the benefits on the game itself."
But Al-Thawadi conceded that the current embargo by some of Qatar's neighbors is "a big, big, obstacle" in terms of co-hosting the tournament.
And perhaps even more telling was when he was asked what the benefits were of Qatar sharing the tournament, Al Thawadi said, "Once I look at the feasibility study, I'll give you that feedback."
ESPN FC's Jeff Carlisle reports from the FIFA council meeting in Miami, which opened the door for a 48-team World Cup in Qatar in 2022.
Meanwhile, a person with knowledge of the talks told The Associated Press that Qatar World Cup organizers are planning to privately resist FIFA's attempts to expand the event, citing political and logistical concerns.
Infantino was more effusive about the revamped Club World Cup, however, saying that the current seven-team competition that is held every year in December will be replaced by a 24-team event, with a "pilot edition" being held in June of 2021. It will replace the Confederations Cup on the FIFA calendar.
"From now on the world will see a real Club World Cup where the best clubs in the world will compete to crown the world champion," said Infantino. "This is important today because club football is evolving, is moving at a different pace in different parts of the world and it's our duty, our responsibility to make sure that we encourage professional club football all over the world. What better than having a real club football, and not a competition like the one we have now. We want to have an exciting competition, we want to have a prestigious competition, we want to have an inclusive competition and we will have this in the new Club World Cup starting in 2021."
The announcement comes in the face of considerable opposition from European clubs. Earlier on Friday, a letter from European Club Association head Andrea Agnelli -- the chairman of Serie A side Juventus -- was published in German newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung, stating that it will boycott the competition. The letter was signed by 15 members of the ECA board, including officials from Barcelona, Manchester United and Ajax.
The signatories said they are "firmly against any approval of a revised Club World Cup at this point in time and confirm that no ECA clubs would take part to such a competition."
The ECA added that any talk of a new competition must be made in conjunction with approval of a new framework for the FIFA international match calendar after 2024.
And after hearing Infantino's announcement on Friday, the ECA issued a statement saying its clubs would not participate in 2021.
"ECA clubs will not participate in 2021 CWC and will asses participation in editions of the competition post-[2024]," the statement read.
In a statement to the Associated Press, UEFA said it "shares the ECA's view that the international match calendar in 2021 does not provide any realistic option to stage a 24-team Club World Cup and that it should furthermore not be played at a time when players should have a well-deserved rest period."
UEFA added that it "supports the views of its stakeholders and has the duty to protect the health of players."
UEFA confirmed "the European members of the FIFA Council therefore unanimously voted against the FIFA proposal.
But Infantino isn't deterred.
"We hope that all the greatest teams will participate," he said at the news conference. "We have held some positive, constructive discussions and will continue with this vein... We'll continue our discussions, but it's our responsibility today to take a decision and we have to deal with organization matters."
Infantino also provided an update on organization of the upcoming Women's World Cup, saying that the preparations were going well. He added that VAR will be used in the tournament, "the same as we did for the men's World Cup."
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KweséESPN picks out the five biggest African disappointments of the World Cup qualifying campaign.
Marc Wilmots was appointed by the Ivory Coast charged with helping the Elephants bounce back from their dismal Africa Cup of Nations title defence.
Unfortunately for the Elephants, the Belgian coach just oversaw a further slump for the West African giants, and his job now appears to be under threat.
Despite boasting one of the most talented squads in the continent, Wilmots oversaw just one win in four qualifiers this year - away at Gabon -and fell to home defeats against both the Panthers and, decisively, against Morocco and former coach Herve Renard on Saturday.
The Ivorians' nervy and limp showing in that contest means that the Elephants end their run of three consecutive World Cup showings, meaning that some of the continent's top stars will be watching on from the outside next summer.
Algeria's qualifying campaign lurched from disappointment to disappointment, and they were a shoo-in for this list.
Les Fennecs parted ways with Milovan Rajevac after their 1-1 draw with Cameroon, and both of his successors -- Georges Leekens and Lucas Alcaraz -- had been dispatched before the draw with Nigeria this weekend.
Algeria have enough top talents to bounce back from their campaign, but rarely have such a talented collection of African talents bombed so heavily in the qualifiers.
Ghana: The Black Stars parted ways with Avram Grant and reappointed Kwesi Appiah after the Nations Cup, hoping that the local coach would help Ghana improve on a sluggish start to their campaign.
While Appiah didn't actually lose a match, his failure to beat Congo-Brazzaville at home in September proved costly, even if they did bounce back in the return fixture.
The coach opted to axe the Ayew Brothers and a handful of other key names as he looked to salvage the qualifying campaign, but a draw away against Uganda wasn't enough...even before Egypt won at home against Congo.
There are a few reasons for optimism - notably Thomas Partey and Richmond Boakye - but it will be intriguing to see whether Appiah can bring together the various disparate elements of his national pool for the 2019 Nations Cup campaign.
South Africa: Even though Bafana Bafana were, in principle, still in the running for Russia until their defeat by Senegal this weekend, South Africa can hardly look back on their qualifying campaign with pride.
One of their two victories - against Senegal - was subsequently annulled due to the corrupt refereeing of Joseph Lamptey, while they were also guilty away in Burkina Faso - in their first qualifier - when they conceded a late Banou Diawara equaliser to set the tone.
The nadir, surely, was the double-header against Cape Verde, when Bafana took the lead then capitulated in Praia, before falling to a 2-1 defeat in Durban.
Stuart Baxter has his work cut out amidst growing criticism.
Congolese nerve: The Democratic Republic of Congo were drawn in the easiest qualifying group, and won both of their first two matches - smashing four past Libya in their opening fixture.
It all looked good for the Leopards as they sought to end their over-four-decade absence from the global high table.
Their campaign unravelled during their double-header against Tunisia, when they lost their advantage in the group and ceded the initiative in the group.
They dominated much of the match in Rades but were let down in front of goal and fell to a 2-1 defeat. In the return match, in Kinshasa, Florent Ibenge's side tore into a 2-0 lead and provisionally took top spot in the group.
However, they capitulated in front of their own fans, conceding two goals in three second-half minutes as Tunisia denied them all three points.
They faced an uphill struggle from there.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Ahead of Friday's World Cup draw, KweséESPN reveal our Dream XI of African players set to compete in next summer's showpiece in Russia.
Munir: In truth, several of Africa's World Cup five aren't in particularly strong shape between the sticks, with Nigeria, notably, unable to point to one, clear excellent goalkeeping option.
Morocco, by contrast, have no concerns at the back, having gone through the entirety of their qualifying campaign without conceding.
While the whole of the team must take credit, goalkeeper Munir has done superbly well to bounce back from fan criticism earlier in his international career to keep goal during such a formidable run of clean sheets.
Ali Maaloul: The only Tunisian player in this team is Maaloul, who should demonstrate next summer why he ought to be considered as the continent's premier left-back.
While the progress of both Abdul Rahman Baba and Faouzi Ghoulam have been stymied by injuries, Maaloul has gone from strength to strength since signing for Al-Ahly, winning the Egyptian title and helping the Cairene giants to the CAF Champions League final.
Defensively, he's unflinching, while he can also weigh in with decisive goals and assists in the final third.
Kalidou Koulibaly continues to go from strength to strength under Maurizio Sarri at Napoli, and having refined many of his rougher edges since moving from Belgian football, Koulibaly is looking like a complete centre-back.
Rumours of a move to Chelsea or Manchester City in recent transfer windows haven't appeared out of place - such has been the defender's rise to prominence - while Koulibaly's role in Napoli's strong start to the season should only see his number of suitors increase.
Medhi Benatia: Last season, Benatia struggled to impose himself at Juventus on loan from Bayern Munich, and eyebrows were raised when the Old Lady made his signing permanent this summer.
However, the Morocco centre-back has begun to demonstrate the kind of form that prompted the Bavarian giants to sign him from AS Roma back in 2014, delivering man-of-the-match-worthy showings in back-to-back games against Barcelona and Crotone.
He's been outstanding as a part of Herve Renard's Moroccan defence, and found the net in the decisive qualifying victory over the Ivory Coast.
Victor Moses makes our squad after an excellent campaign for Chelsea, where his career has been transformed over the last 18 months.
Reconverted into a right wing-back by Antonio Conte, he became a key figure in the Blues' title-winning side last term, and was nominated for the BBC African Footballer of the Year award in the process.
For the Super Eagles, he made a series of key performances as they secured World Cup qualification, notably scoring twice in the 3-1 victory at home against Algeria.
Mbark Boussoufa: We've plumped for Boussoufa ahead of John Obi Mikel to take a starting role in this midfield, where he'd operate as this dream team's deep-lying playmaker.
Boussoufa may be 33, but he's rarely controlled games more effectively - and more consistently - as he's done for Morocco during Renard's tenure, especially when paired alongside the rugged Karim El Ahmadi.
He can pick out passes for the Atlas Lions' front-runners, hold onto the ball when the North Africans are under pressure, and dictate the tempo as Renard desires.
Idrissa Gueye sneaks into this midfield ahead of Wilfred Ndidi and El Ahmadi as Africa's outstanding player in his position today.
While Gueye is enduring a testing campaign with troubled Everton, his qualities as a midfield destroyer - capable of breaking up the play, recycling the ball and keeping possession - make him a key component of Senegal's starting XI.
Hakim Ziyech: Arguably Africa's next great creative midfielder, Morocco's 6-0 demolition of Mali during World Cup qualifying is worth re-watching just for Ziyech's magnificent midfield management from deep.
The Ajax man was the architect of that triumph, and has been a consistently excellent presence with the Amsterdam giants since signing from FC Twente at the beginning of last season.
Keita Balde has taken his time to warm up at AS Monaco after signing for the Club of the Principality, but when Balde's in form - as he was towards the end of last season - there are few African attackers who could match him.
The fleet-footed wideman can beat defenders for pace and has the upper-body strength to outmuscle full-backs, but does he have the maturity to cope in a tournament setting?
Mohamed Salah: It's hard to pick out any player who performed better than Salah during qualifying, with the Liverpool forward establishing himself as the Pharaohs' talisman and the long-term successor to Mohamed Aboutrika.
He scored five during qualification, including the double against Congo-Brazzaville that ensured Egypt ended their 28-year wait to reach the World Cup.
If the attacker can continue the early-season form he's shown at Liverpool - where he's broken Robbie Fowler's record for goals scored at the start of his Reds career - then Egypt could be the tournament's dark horses.
Sadio Mane rounds off our African World Cup Dream XI as arguably the outstanding individual in this team - certainly, Mane has the quality to be one of the stars of next summer's showpiece.
None of the defenders heading to Russia will relish the prospect of attempting to nullify the threat of the Liverpool forward, who's consistently proved a match-winner for Jurgen Klopp's side since signing from Southampton in 2016.
Mane marries speed, intelligence and technical class in the final third, although having missed considerable time with injuries and a suspension in the last 18 months, both the Reds and the Teranga Lions may be considering wrapping him up in cotton wool before the tournament.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
In his first guest column with KweséESPN, former Zambia assistant coach and Queens Park Rangers opposition analyst Irfan Kawri outlines why he believes Morocco's Herve Renard can oversee a major World Cup upset this summer.
The Atlas Lions may have been pitted against Spain, Portugal and Iran in an ominous group, but Kawri is confident that the French coach has shown enough during his time in African football to deliver a surprise or two in Russia ...
--
Herve Renard is probably the most successful foreign coach in Africa, and his record speaks for itself: two Africa Cup of Nations titles -- one with Zambia and one with Ivory Coast -- and World Cup qualification with Morocco.
One of the first things I remember when I joined the Chipolopolo as assistant coach was that he left an amazing effect on the people of Zambia.
Even before I arrived in the country, people were messaging me and saying 'make sure you wear a white shirt like Renard, be tough on the players like Renard, you can be like Renard', such was his impact.
When I joined the team, and probably because I was coming from Europe, staff would tell me stories about Renard, so he obviously had an amazing influence over the nation.
What we need to remember is that Renard had two stints with the Chipolopolo, between 2008 and 2010, and then 2011-2013.
Kalusha Bwalya was a key figure in Renard's success, as he was the president of FAZ at the time and he had a lot of faith in and patience with him.
Renard had a lot of time to work with the players and get to know them, but he also invested a lot of time in embracing the Zambian culture. I know that he's approached life in Morocco in a similar fashion.
This made it easier for him to quickly instil his philosophy and ethos into the national-team set up, but he was also a very good man manager and had an excellent rapport with the players. They would run through brick walls for him.
There was a good balance of pure hard work and discipline in the camp, and off the field he reached out to his players and staff.
Again, you can see from the outside that he's replicated this approach in North Africa, and Morocco's desire, unity and togetherness are notable qualities as they head to Russia.
Renard was tactically very astute, and had the right balance of defending, attacking and getting his players to make the right decisions in offensive and defensive transitional periods.
It's no surprise to me that Morocco had the best defensive record in Africa - not conceding a goal - as they qualified for the World Cup. Of course, however, that solidity and the individuals' decision-making will be tested in Russia.
The group of players he had in Zambia were largely in their prime as well, and the likes of Kennedy Mweene, Stophira Sunzu, Rainford Kalaba, Nathan Sinkala, Isaac Chansa, Christopher Katongo and Emmanuel Mayuka was a fine base upon which to build a squad.
Nonetheless, Renard deserves credit for getting the absolute best out of these players, all of whom arguably peaked under his guidance.
Patrice Beaumelle, who will be alongside Renard in Russia, was a very good trainer, and underneath the duo's tutelage, the team developed that nous and know-how of good game management and getting results.
Results are critical for Renard, and I expect him to demonstrate at the World Cup that he knows how to manage a match in order to get the job done.
Ultimately, Renard created an excellent synergy and camaraderie with Zambia - and this is a talent that deserves immense acknowledgement.
He created a real spirit, and he was the one who used to bring local Zambian music and play it in the changing rooms before games.
The scenes that have always stayed with me are of him dancing with the players after the AFCON triumph.
Dancing is big part of the dressing-room culture in Zambia -- I was asked to do a dance before I led my first session in front of the staff and players, and this kind of stuff really matters and leaves an impression on the guys in the team.
With Ivory Coast, Herve went onto work with players who were playing in Europe's top leagues - the likes of Gervinho, the Toure brothers, Wilfried Bony, Serge Aurier, Eric Bailly and Salomon Kalou for example -- and he demonstrated that he can get the best out of bigger egos.
As other coaches have demonstrated, it's hard to install that same approach of hard work and disciple with elite players, but Renard succeeded in establishing his ethos and philosophy with them as well.
For Morocco, ahead of the World Cup, he has the experience of tournament football and winning international trophies, so he will be well prepared for Russia.
As Renard's assistant and Morocco great Mustapha Hadji said, as per The Guardian, the coach has built an atmosphere and spirit within the group, and has brought in a more professional approach.
It's made a big difference, as having just quality isn't enough to succeed.
Renard's positive impact has clearly been evident in the qualifying campaign, as they finished atop their group without conceding a single goal while scoring 11 goals in six.
He has definitely brought discipline and organisation, particularly without the ball, to the Atlas Lions, and that, along with the team's creativity, should ensure a good balance heading into Russia.
If there is going to be an upset in the group, then Renard's side - rather than Iran -- are the ones with the real potential to do that to either Spain or Portugal.
Morocco have players playing in Europe's top leagues, and they're bolstered by players who were born overseas with Moroccan heritage - such as captain Medhi Benatia of Juventus, Southampton forward Sofiane Boufal, Galatasaray playmaker Younes Belhanda and the rising star from Real Madrid, Achraf Hakimi.
With Renard at the helm, I think there's real reason for optimism among the Moroccan public, and I'm tipping the Atlas Lions to be one of this summer's surprise packages.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Morocco wrote another chapter in their lengthy history of failed World Cup bids on Wednesday, when the North Africans were defeated by the United bid following voting at the FIFA congress in Moscow.
Morocco were defeated by 134 votes to 65 as the wait continues to host a maiden World Cup - and Africa's second.
It was always bound to be an uphill battle for the North African nation in the face of the tripartite bid from the United States, Canada and Mexico, and clearly, despite the concerns about the logistics of the rival proposal, they didn't do enough to convince - or compel - voters to plump for them.
There are various reasons why Morocco were defeated, although the North Africans will surely demand an internal inquisition as to why their bid, which leant heavily on compact travelling, a time-zone advantage for Europe, and a nebulous prospect of it being 'Africa's time...again', lost by such a landslide.
If anything, it feels like CONCACAF's time, with the region not having hosted the tournament since 1994, 16 years before South Africa became Africa's first hosts.
The World Cup would have stretched their infrastructure to its limits, while their attempts to sally the prospects of their bidding rivals clearly fell on deaf ears.
Ultimately, perhaps, North America's offer of an eye-watering $11 billion profit for FIFA may have represented too-intoxicating a proposition for many voters to have ignored.
It's yet another chapter in Morocco's World Cup bidding failure.
They've now thrown their hat into the ring on four occasions, beginning - ironically - with the 1994 tournament, which ultimately went to the USA.
On that occasion they were defeated by three votes, with the States getting 10 to their seven. Brazil received two votes from the FIFA executive committee, with Chile withdrawing ahead of the bidding.
Buoyed, perhaps, by that narrow loss, they contested the 1998 tournament bidding against England, Germany, Switzerland and eventual winners France.
Several withdrawals left just Morocco and France standing when the Exco members came to cast their votes, with the Europeans winning by 12 votes to seven.
Despite having Spain and Portugal in their group, Ed Dove highlights some of the key reasons Morocco could surprise a few people at the 2018 World Cup in Russia.
The North Africans were then outclassed in the voting for the 2006 event, dropping out in the opening round after taking just two votes, while South Africa advanced to go head to head with eventual hosts Germany in the final round.
The controversy that surrounded that final vote, when Charlie Dempsey defied his Oceania Confederation to abstain from voting, rather than put his support behind South Africa, as he had been mandated to do, prompted FIFA to guarantee that the 2010 tournament would go to Africa.
On paper, this ought to have been Morocco's opening.
Nigeria, Tunisia and Libya all expressed desire to compete for the tournament but their bids faltered before the voting, while Egypt - also keen to bring the competition to Africa for the first time - didn't receive any support.
This led to a head to head between South Africa and Morocco.
The former won another controversial vote 14-10, with the Daily Telegraph later reporting that South Africa were awarded the tournament despite Morocco having actually accrued more votes.
FIFA exco member Chuck Blazer later claimed that he'd accepted bribes to vote for South Africa in 2010 and France in 1998 - both ahead of Morocco.
Only time will tell whether Morocco have lost the 2026 process more 'fairly' and 'cleanly' than they had done in the past.
Either way, failure in Moscow on Wednesday represents the first major setback in the renaissance of Moroccan football following the North African nation's major gains in recent years.
On the field they've enjoyed a revival under Herve Renard, reaching the quarter finals of the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations and securing World Cup qualification for the first time since 1998. A home-based selection also won the African Nations Championship earlier this year, while Wydad Casablanca are reigning African club champions.
The nation's FA president Fouzi Lekjaa is attempting to usher in a fresh, modern approach for football governance in North Africa as he looks to recast Morocco as a North African powerhouse.
On this occasion, the opposition has proved too stern, and attention will turn swiftly to the Atlas Lions' World Cup campaign in Russia, where they have a chance -- in a group containing Spain and Portugal -- to show that underdog stories don't always have predictable outcomes.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Second-half goals from Thanabalan Nadarajah and Muhammad Syazwan gave Malaysia a 2-0 victory over 10-man Mongolia in Bangkok on Sunday to secure qualification for January's 2018 AFC U23 Championship in China.
Their passage was confirmed when host nation Thailand were held to a 0-0 draw by Indonesia in a later match on Sunday night, allowing Datuk Ong Kim Swee's team to finish top of Group H.
It was also a huge boost for the Malaysians ahead of the men's football tournament at next month's Southeast Asian (SEA) Games in Kuala Lumpur.
Even so, it was an unimpressive performance from the Malaysians, with Mongolia the better side before being reduced to 10 men. But Harimau Malaya deserve credit for sticking to their guns to secure a second victory in three matches in Thailand.
But the Mongolians almost stunned Malaysia in the fourth minute. They sliced through the Malaysian backline, and Gal-Erdene Soyol-Erdene was muscled off the ball just in time as he looked set to tap in Enkhbileg Purevdorj's cut-back to the far post.
The minnows threatened again in the 17th minute as Tuguldur Munkh-Erdene broke down the left and found Tserenbayar Boldbaatar in space in the Malaysian box. The midfielder's control let him down, however, and he scuffed his shot wide.
Malaysia came close in the 22nd minute when a low ball across goal reached Akhyar Rashid, but the playmaker completely missed his kick. Shamie Iszuan gathered the ball and fed it back to Thanabalan near the edge of the box, but the Felcra striker blazed it high over.
However, Mongolia continued to look the more threatening. First, a low cross from Enkhbileg just evaded Altansakuh Temuujin at the back post before a surging run from Narmandakah Artag was ended by a crude foul 30 yards from goal.
With his side being outplayed by the group underdogs, Ong had seen enough, and made a double substitution with just 37 minutes gone.
Shamie was replaced by Syahmi Safari and Mohd Fauzan came off for Syafiq Ahmad.
The Malaysians worked their way back into the game towards the end of the half. But Mongolia head coach Michael Weiss will have been much happier than his counterpart with the first 45 minutes.
But Malaysia breathed a huge sigh of relief when they took the lead against the run of play in the 51st minute. Ashraf cut the ball across the face of goal and Thanabalan bundled the ball home from inside the six-yard box.
Six minutes later, Akhyar's darting run down the left was ended by a lunge from Uuganbat Bat-Erdene and the Mongolian defender was given his second yellow card.
The tiring Mongolians continued to battle gamely and when Ganyabar Ganbold flashed two shots wide with just over 10 minutes remaining, it reminded Malaysia that there was still work to do.
But Syazwan finally killed off the Mongolians with an excellent strike in the 86th minute. He cut inside from the left and arrowed an unstoppable shot into the top corner from just inside the penalty area.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Kelantan coach Zahasmi Ismail described football as "cruel" as he resigned himself to needing a miracle after seeing his struggling side drop to the relegation zone following the goalless draw against PKNS FC in the Malaysia Super League (MSL) on Wednesday night.
The Red Warriors will now have to beat Melaka United in their final game on Oct. 28 and hope that Sarawak drop points at home to T-Team to preserve their MSL status.
Kelantan's failure to beat PKNS at home saw Sarawak replace them out of the drop zone after staging a remarkable second-half performance to beat Malaysia FA Cup champions Kedah 4-2.
"We had a few injuries, especially to our strikers. We used all our forwards, but still failed to find the net and now find ourselves in this position. Football can be cruel," Zahasmi said.
"We have to accept this situation as we prepare for our final game. I hope we can get all our players back as we aim for a miracle."
Zahasmi's sad statement doesn't fill long-suffering fans with confidence as Kelantan look forward to their trip to Melaka, who beat Selangor 2-1 on Wednesday.
 The Red Warriors wajib menang game terakhir dan mengharapkan sarawak kalah last game 👊🏼 come on, kita berjuang hingga habis 👏🏼🔥⚽️ Gomo Kelate Gomo 🦇 . FT: KELANTAN (0)-(0) PKNS
A post shared by THE RED WARRIORS (@kelantanwarriors_fc) on Sep 27, 2017 at 9:09am PDT

On the field, Kelantan were lucky to survive against PKNS, thanks to the brilliance of national goalkeeper Khairul Fahmi Che Mat and the woodwork at the Sultan Muhammad IV Stadium[1]
The East Coast giants did not seem to have a cohesive game plan as they defended like schoolboys, and lacked direction going forward.
The inept performance also summed up the team's managerial incompetence this campaign. From not being assured of participation in the league, to being docked three points after not complying with administrative requirements, Kelantan's chaotic hierarchy seems to have taken a toll on their players.
The club received some long-awaited good news last week when businesswoman Bibi Ramjani took over as president and got to work by settling two months' of outstanding salaries.
 PresidenKAFA Hajah Bibi Ramjani Ilias Khan menunaikan janjinya melunaskan tunggakan gaji pemain skuad The Red Warriors (TRW) pada sesi latihan petang tadi 😎🔥⚽️ Alhamdulillah misi kekal Liga Super 2018 😘
A post shared by THE RED WARRIORS (@kelantanwarriors_fc) on Sep 25, 2017 at 5:19am PDT

But despite Bibi's presence in the stands at a half-empty stadium in Kota Bharu, Kelantan could not lift their game against PKNS, who were simply happy to improve on their seventh-placed standing.
"The new management has done everything to us their backing, but luck was not on our side against PKNS," was all Zahasmi could muster when asked on Bibi's support.
After Penang were relegated last week, one other MSL team will join them in the second division in 2018.
Terengganu and Kuala Lumpur will join the top flight next season after the joint Premier League leaders confirmed promotion, with one game to spare.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
S.League powerhouses Home United might need to be on the lookout for a new coach for the 2018 season, with boss Aidil Sharin on the radar of three Malaysia Super League (MSL) clubs.
ESPN FC understands that the 40-year-old has been approached by Felda United, PKNS FC and Kelantan, after an impressive first full season in charge of the Protectors.
Under Aidil's tutelage, Home have morphed into an exciting outfit, with a stunning record of 96 goals in 40 matches.
They reached the ASEAN zonal final of the AFC Cup and secured a third-placed finish in the S.League, which guarantees them continental football for another term.
While the team will end the season without any silverware, their outstanding performances meant Aidil caught interest across the Causeway.
The former national player has already held discussions with Felda in Malaysia over the weekend, and will meet up with Kelantan's officials in Singapore later this week.
 Stipe Plazibat did it again! . . . . . . #HUFC #redgalaxy #2017 #homerevolution #theprotectors #sgfootball #sgsoccer #footballgame #dreams #neverquits #sgblog #igsg #sg #ig #vscosg #sginsta #instasg #photooftheday #ignation #thebalibible #excitment #makeportraitsmag#fitness #sports #Soccer #urbanandstreet#hypebeast
A post shared by Home United ™ (@homeunited_fc) on Nov 6, 2017 at 5:06am PST

A prospective deal would see him paid four times as much as his current salary at Home, with a couple of Home United players, and backroom staff, joining him at a new club.
Aidil acknowledged the interest coming from the MSL, but is keen to focus on finishing the season strongly with Home. They have a final S.League game away against Tampines Rovers, and a Singapore Cup third-place playoff against Hougang United.
"At the moment, I hope to finish the season on the high with Home United, with the remaining two games," he told ESPN FC.
"There is something special in Home United this season. Quality and youth, it's fantastic here in Home United this season. We went against all odds to reach the AFC Cup Zonal Final, we wanted to entertain the fans with free-flowing attacking football, and we did it.
"Playing from the back was our objective this season, we scored 96 goals in 40 games this season. It's a good achievement for every player in the squad."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Myanmar striker Aung Thu has become the latest player to benefit from the Thai League's (T1) new ASEAN player quota by joining Police Tero.
The 21-year-old leaves Myanmar champions Yadanarbon, a year after he was first linked with a move to Thailand.
The move was confirmed on the Thai League website after reports that a deal had been reached came out of Myanmar.
Tero -- previously known as BEC Tero Sasana -- will be hoping that the striker can lift the attacking prowess of a side who scored just 42 times in T1 this year, the joint second lowest total.
The Bangkok-based club had a disappointing season, finishing in 14th spot under A-League-winning head coach Mike Mulvey. The signing of Aung is an early indication that they mean business in their attempts to improve on that performance.
Despite his young age, Aung has already won 24 caps for his country, scoring eight times. He came to the attention of many in the region with his energetic performances and goals against Vietnam and Cambodia in the 2016 AFF Cup.
Aung scored Myanmar's only goal against Thailand in last month's 3-1 friendly defeat in Mandalay and was also on target in the 1-1 draw with Singapore in June.
In addition to his strikes against Southeast Asian opponents, Aung has scored for Myanmar in Lebanon and also struck a key goal in last month's 2019 AFC Asian Cup qualifier against Kyrgyzstan.
Aung is the second high profile ASEAN signing since the Thai League introduced a dedicated squad place to players from Southeast Asia.
Australian-born Philippines international midfielder Iain Ramsay is expected to complete a deal with T1's newly-promoted Prachuap FC once he has completed the Philippines Football League season with Ceres-Negros.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Malaysia Under-23 boss Ong Kim Swee is confident of a bright future working with Tan Cheng Hoe, the new head coach of the Harimau Malaya.
Tan was appointed on Thursday, following the short but doomed reign of Nelo Vingada, who failed to win any of his seven games in charge, losing six.
FAM's Crown Prince president TMJ had to swallow his pride, having handpicked Portugal's Vingada in search of foreign coach after demoting Ong to oversee the Malaysian U23 squad.
Ong defied expectations, while proving a point to TMJ, by winning eight of 10 games in 2017 with the unheralded, developmental outfit.

Being well aware of the challenges his friend and fellow Malaysian will face at senior level, Ong believes he and Tan can work effectively together.
"This is a good combination as we need each other to produce good talent for present and future," Ong told The Malay Mail.
"Cheng Hoe and I have been friends for more than a decade, we have no problems with each other. Thus, this relationship can help us to embark on new strategic development planning for both Harimau Malaya and the youth."
Tan has had success at club level by helping Kedah win promotion to the Malaysia Super League in 2015 and a Malaysia Cup win in 2016, taking them to consecutive finals.
He was also assistant coach to K. Rajagobal when the Harimau Malaya won the 2009 Southeast Asian (SEA) Games gold medal and lifted the AFF Suzuki Cup in 2010.
It is a track record that raises expectations. However, Ong has warned that it will take time for the new man to deliver the results the country desperately wants after a miserable 2017 ended with a slide to an all-time low of 174th in the FIFA rankings.
"I need to stress that Cheng Hoe needs time to 'recover' the team. In fact, any coach leading Harimau Malaya at this point needs time," Ong said.
Tan will no doubt be watching with interest when Ong takes Malaysia's under-23 side to next month's AFC U23 championship in China.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Cambodia attacker Chan Vathanaka has signed for Malaysia Super League (MSL) club Pahang after a disappointing spell in Japan.
Vathanaka has agreed a one-year deal with the Elephants as he opts for Malaysia, despite rumours of interest from clubs in Thailand.
The 23-year-old moved on loan from Cambodian side Boeung Ket Angkor to Fujieda MYFC in J3 at the beginning of the 2017 season. The transfer was widely anticipated as a stepping stone to a possible switch to a side in upper tiers of Japanese football.
However, things did not work out at all for Vathanaka, waiting until October for a few minutes of first team action in the league.
 Happy to join with @pahangfa_official @officialligasupermalaysia
A post shared by  Chan Vathanaka (@vathanaka_cv11) on Dec 15, 2017 at 3:50am PST

Now, the striker hopes to get his career back in track with the club who finished the 2017 season as runners up in the MSL and the FA Cup.
"After returning from the loan spell in Japan, my agent and I discussed about my future," Vathanaka told The New Straits Times. "I still wanted to play outside Cambodia, but I needed to pick a club that would use me regularly.
"In Japan, I only featured in two matches. When the offer from Pahang came, I realised that this could be a golden opportunity to get more matches and also improve in all aspects."
Despite his lack of game time in Japan, Vathanaka insists that he arrives in Malaysia a better payer than the one who left Cambodia almost a year ago.
"Although, I was not a regular with Fujieda, I did gain from the experience," Vathanaka said.
"Communication was the biggest issue, but I took it as a challenge and overall, I improved a lot in Japan.
"I am excited. I believe my stint here will help my game progress. I trained for the first time on Friday with Pahang and everyone was friendly. I hope everything will fall into place for me here."
Vathanka first came to the attention of most Malaysians as he struck twice in Cambodia's 3-2 defeat to the Harimau Malaya in the 2016 AFF Cup.
At Pahang, he will play alongside Singapore midfielder Safuwan Baharudin, who recently joined from PDRM FA.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Philippines international striker Mark Hartmann has joined Ubon UMT United in the Thai League (T1) where he will play under former England International defender Gary Stevens.
Southampton-born Hartmann arrives in Thailand following a year in the Malaysia Super League (MSL), where he played for Sarawak and then Penang in the 2017 season. Both clubs were relegated by the end of the year.
His time in the MSL followed an impressive spell at Geylang International in the S.League as he scored eight goals in 11 league games.
Hartmann had been playing in the Philippines for five years, including three years at Global-Cebu, before he began his travels around Southeast Asia.
Ubon fans will hope that he can settle in northeast Thailand at a club that came 10th in 2017, their first season in the top tier.
The 25-year-old brings significant international experience to the team, having won 25 caps for the Azkals.
He will be hoping to stake a claim for a starting spot in the Philippines AFF Suzuki Cup squad, having featured in only two substitute appearance in the 2016 edition.
Hartmann will also have an eye on the 2019 AFC Asian Cup should the Azkals seal qualification by taking at least a point from the final qualifier at home to Tajikistan on Mar. 27.
There have been many changes to the Ubon team that made a strong impression in their inaugural T1 campaign.
Captain, centre-back, second top scorer and general talisman Victor Cardozo has joined Chiang Rai United after three years at the club which saw him help the club on their journey from the third tier to the top tier.

Last year's top scorer Bajram Nebihi has also moved on, the Kosovar-German joining the Port FC revolution.
The head coach who took them through the divisions, Scott Cooper, has also opted for a new challenge as he takes the reigns at Police Tero in Bangkok.
Stevens certainly has his work cut out as he rebuilds a team, whose standout achievement in 2017 was winning home and away against Muang Thong United.
The use of Ubon's ASEAN quota to sign Hartmann is one piece of the jigsaw as the club looks to consolidate its position in T1.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Jason Dasey and John Wilkinson discuss the new rule that will make S.League sides more youthful and examine the future of the national team. (2:28)
Tampines Rovers geared up for their upcoming AFC Champions League (ACL) qualifier away to Bali United with a 2-1 friendly win against Malaysia Premier League side Johor Darul Ta'zim (JDT) II at Jalan Besar Stadium on Saturday night.
Goals from Japanese winger Ryutaro Megumi and forward Fazrul Nawaz in each half did the trick for last season's S.League runners-up. However, they conceded late, with JDT II captain Nicolas Fernandez scoring straight from a corner.
It was a good runout for the new-look Tampines side, with German coach Jurgen Raab throwing five of their new signings into the starting eleven ahead of their Jan. 16 trip to Bali.
If they fail to qualify for the ACL, they are likely to be pitted against JDT's top side in Group H of the 2018 AFC Cup.
Against JDT II, Syazwan Buhari made an early save, but was largely untroubled in goal. Afiq Yunos barely put a foot wrong, alongside Mustafic Fahrudin and Daniel Bennett in a three-man defence.
Amirul Adli also put in a good shift in the middle of the park alongside the returning Yasir Hanapi.
The standout performer was ex-Warriors star Jordan Webb, who looked sharp and electric as ever on the wing, despite starting preseason training just a handful of days ago.

The Canadian attacker, who turns 30 in March, played a vital role in their first goal by skinning his marker on the left before looping an inch-perfect cross for Megumi to head home at the far post.
Another new signing Safirul Sulaiman came on in the second half and had a part in their second goal. He delivered a well-flighted free kick into the box which Bennett flicked on for Fazrul to nick home.
The Stags came under late pressure, with visitors looking for the equaliser in the dying moments, but they managed to hold out for the win.
"Everyone, including me, has been working really hard in preseason and I felt we did well today," Adli told ESPN FC.
"We have to be positive and say we did good, but at the same time we cannot be complacent. We have to work harder than ever, especially for myself, who came here after four years with the Young Lions.
"We're about to play the highest level of football in the ACL qualifiers so we have to make sure we are mentally and physically prepared for the challenge."
Meanwhile, Hafiz Sujad lasted 71 minutes on his JDT II debut at left back, despite just recovering from sickness. He told ESPN FC that he is looking forward to a smooth season under Mexican coach Benjamin Mora.
"It's a bit weird to make my club debut against my former team," acknowledged the 27-year-old. "I heard coach Jurgen shouting at the sides which could be confusing at times.
"I should be starting mostly at left-back because they lack players in this position and I hope I can do well for the team.
"We just started preseason and we've been doing a lot of gym work. The coach has told us that it's important to gel together and have a good team shape. For myself, I just need more time to adjust myself and fit in."
Another S.League side Hougang United also had a friendly on Saturday, edging National Football League (NFL) outfit Singapore Cricket Club 1-0 at Padang through a lone goal from rising starlet Justin Hui.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Two-time S.League Golden Boot winner Rafael Ramazotti has agreed a deal to join PKNS for the 2018 Malaysia Super League (MSL) season.
Ramazotti moves from Brunei's DPMM, where he was instrumental to the club's 2015 S.League triumph under former Blackburn Rovers boss Steve Kean.
The Brazilian earned his first Golden Boot that year, when he struck 21 league goals and netted 20 times the following year to retain the award.
PKNS are keen to have a better season under former Malaysia head coach K. Rajagobal after ending the 2017 MSL campaign in seventh spot.
 . PENJARING TERBANYAK LIGA SINGAPURA 3 MUSIM BERTURUT SERTAI THE RED ANTS -------- Penyerang tinggi lampai kelahiran Brazil, Rafael Ramazotti de Quatros menyertai PKNS FC daripada pasukan DPMM FC. Rafael merekodkan kejayaan cemerlang di Liga Singapura dengan menjadi penjaring terbanyak musim 2015 (21 gol), musim 2016 (20 gol) dan berada di tempat ketiga pada tahun 2017 dengan 14 gol. Rafael telah pun diuji oleh Ketua Jurulatih PKNS FC, Datuk K Rajagobal ketika menentang Gyeongnam FC di Bangkok, minggu lepas. #TheRedAnts #NeverGiveUp #NeverSurrender
A post shared by  PKNS FC (@thepknsfc) on Jan 29, 2018 at 11:50pm PST
And Ramazotti joins Australian defender Zac Anderson and Singapore midfielder Faris Ramli as the Red Ants try and push themselves among Malaysia's top sides.
With legendary Malaysia striker Safee Sali also on board, alongside talented youngster Jafri Firdaus Chew, Rajagobal is assembling a useful looking blend of youth and experience to try and take the club forward.
PKNS begin their 2018 MSL campaign with a trip to face newly promoted Terengganu on Feb. 3.
Ramazotti played on loand with Japanese club Avispa Fukuoka in 2011, scoring one goal in four matches.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Monaco have completed the signing of free agent Rachid Ghezzal, who joins the reigning French champions on a four-year deal.
The 25-year-old left Lyon at the end of his contract earlier this summer, and despite being linked with a move to the Premier League, was unveiled as a Monaco player on Monday after completing a medical.
L'AS Monaco est heureux d'annoncer la signature de Rachid Ghezzal jusqu'en 2021 ! #WelcomeToMonaco pic.twitter.com/MuupbbKAPr
- AS Monaco ���� (@AS_Monaco) August 7, 2017
"I had the ambition of playing at the highest level, nationally and internationally, and the sporting project of Monaco -- who hold the title and who reached the semifinals of the Champions League - is fantastic," Ghezzal told the club's official website.
"After several seasons at Lyon, I needed a new challenge," he added. "Everything has come together here for us to have a great season.
"I can't wait to meet my teammates and to begin training."
The Algeria international made 25 appearances for Lyon last term, scoring two goals and contributing two assists.
Zenit St Petersburg, Celta Vigo and Nice had all made offers for Ghezzal this summer, before he ultimately opted to join Leonardo Jardim's side.
Ghezzal will be charged with helping the Monegasques overcome the loss of Bernardo Silva, while Kylian Mbappe's future remains uncertain as he continues to be linked with the exit door.
The forward broke into the Lyon team during the 2012-13 season, but enjoyed his best campaign in the 2015-16 season when he scored eight goals in 29 Ligue 1 outings.
He made his Algeria debut in 2015, and was a member of the Fennecs squad that was eliminated in the first round of the Africa Cup of Nations earlier this year.
"[Ghezzal] is a talented young player who knows the league well and who can also call upon a solid experience of the European Cup," added Monaco's vice-president Vadim Vasilyev. "We have a lot of faith in Rachid and in his abilities to go to a new level at Monaco."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The summer transfer window in 2018 is very different to past years. Rather than every major league bringing to an end its transfer business on the same day, Aug. 31, this year there is a staggered finish.
Here, we take a look at the transfer rules which govern each major European league.
In all cases, clubs are still able to sign players as free agents after the deadline, and as long as they are not officially attached to any club on Aug. 31.
The official FIFA transfer deadline for England remains at Aug. 31, but clubs in the top leagues voted in individual changes.
The Premier League led the way in Europe in bringing forward the transfer deadline after complaints by managers in recent seasons. The transfer market closed at 5 p.m. BST on Thursday, Aug. 9 -- the day before Manchester United kicked off the new season at home to Leicester City.
The EFL, including the Championship, decided to match the Premier League's date. The difference here is that EFL clubs will still be able to trade players on loan up until Aug. 31. The loan can also include a clause whereby the move automatically becomes permanent once the window reopens in January, so in effect there is a loophole.
All English clubs will still be able to sell or loan players to leagues where the transfer market remains open after Aug. 9.
The winter window will run throughout January as usual.
Spanish clubs have not decided to make any changes to the way their market operates, and the window will close as usual at 11.59 p.m. CET on Friday, Aug. 31. Clubs can still sign free agents after this date and sell or loan players to leagues where the transfer market is still open.
The winter window runs throughout January.
Italy was the only other league to bring its deadline forward, and the market closed at 8 p.m. CET on Friday, Aug. 17 -- the day before the Serie A season kicks off. Serie A and Serie B clubs cannot now sign players, though clubs in Serie C had until Saturday, Aug. 25 to complete their business. Free agents can still be signed, and clubs can still sell or loan players to leagues where the transfer window remains open.
The FIGC has also confirmed a truncated winter window from Thursday, Jan. 3 to Friday, Jan. 18 at 8 p.m. CET.
German clubs have also left their transfer window at 6 p.m. CET on Friday, Aug. 31. Clubs can still sign free agents after this date and sell or loan players to leagues where the window is still open.
The winter window runs throughout January.
Ligue 1 will operate exactly the same as La Liga, with the transfer deadline remaining as Friday, Aug. 31 at 11.59 p.m. CET and the winter window spanning January.
A handful of major leagues that will still be able to buy players after Aug. 31. The deadlines are:
Sept. 1: Denmark, Scotland, Turkey
Sept. 2: Netherlands
Sept. 6: Russia
Sept. 21: Portugal
Oct. 18: Australia
The Major League Soccer summer transfer widow closes on Wednesday, Aug. 8.
MORE:
All transfers
Transfer Talk blog
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MEXICO CITY -- Club America youngster Diego Lainez lifted the Liga MX title on Sunday and is now set to sign for Dutch side Ajax, sources close to the deal have told ESPN Mexico.
Univision first reported that there was a formal offer for Lainez and that Sunday's 2-0 victory over Cruz Azul to win the 2018 Apertura was likely to be his final game for Las Aguilas.
Lainez, 18, was linked with Lyon earlier this week and has indicated previously that a move to Europe is in his plans for the future.
"You know what my dream is," Lainez told reporters on the Estadio Azteca pitch after the win. "Today we celebrate and tomorrow we can talk about [other topics]."
"I'm very happy right now. I feel like I matured a lot today. In these games you become a man and we achieved the results."
.@DiegoLainez10 made a point of taking photos with his family after the title win #ligamxeng pic.twitter.com/JT69oDiAz4

Left-footed forward Lainez made his Liga MX debut in March 2017 and has been projected as a young Mexican with a bright future, with the Villahermosa native earning his first cap with the full national team last September.
Club America's sporting director Santiago Banos didn't want to talk about a possible deal after the game.
"First we want to celebrate," said Banos. "From tomorrow and inside a week we'll talk about all the topics that are pending."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Mark Ogden joins the panel to answer your tweets on Liverpool's FA Cup defeat, Man United's transfer targets, bold predictions for 2019 and more. (6:12)
Unlike the summer transfer window, which has a more staggered transfer deadline, in Europe most leagues close on Jan. 31 -- but at different points throughout the day.
In all cases, clubs are still able to sign players as free agents after the deadline, and as long as they are not officially attached to any club when the window closes on Jan. 31.
The deadline is at 11 p.m. GMT (6 p.m. ET) on Thursday, Jan. 31. The EFL, including the Championship, will also have the same deadline.
The window will close as usual at 11.59 p.m. CET (6.59 p.m. ET) on Jan. 31.
Bizarrely, Italian football had originally planned to run a truncated winter window from Thursday, Jan. 3 to Friday, Jan. 18 at 8 p.m. CET. It would appear sense was seen last month, however, with the deadline now restored to Jan. 31 at 8 p.m. CET (3 p.m. ET).
German clubs have until 6 p.m. CET (1 p.m. ET) on Jan. 31. Clubs can still sell or loan players to leagues where the window is still open for the remainder of the day.
Ligue 1 will operate exactly the same as La Liga, with the transfer deadline at 11.59 p.m. CET (6.59 p.m. ET) on Jan. 31 and the winter window spanning January.
Jan. 31: Australia, Belgium, Mexico, Netherlands, Scotland
Feb. 2: Portugal
Feb 22: Russia
Feb. 28: China
Mar. 3: Ukraine
The Major League Soccer transfer widow closes on May 7.
MORE:
All transfers
Transfer Talk blog
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
UEFA is to test a new penalty shootout system at the men's and women's European Under-17 Championship tournaments which take place this month.
The new system, which is similar to a tennis tiebreak and has been referred to by some as "ABBA," is designed to reduce the potential advantage that the team taking a first penalty in a shootout currently may have.
Rather than the current process, which sees teams taking penalties automatically following each other in a sequence of pairs, the new system will see the side taking the first penalty alternate.
Team A will take the first spot kick, with Team B taking the first penalty for the second and third kicks, before Team A then takes the first kick for the fourth effort. The sequence then repeats itself for the final penalty and subsequent kicks that are required if the shootout goes into "sudden death."
The referee will toss a coin to decide which end of the pitch the shootout will take place, before they then toss again to dictate which team takes the first or second penalty.
A UEFA statement said that the trial has been sanctioned by football's lawmakers, the International Football Association Board (IFAB), as part of its "play fair" initiative.
The statement added: "[The] IFAB says that the experiment follows growing evidence that the current penalty shootout system, as laid down in the Laws of the Game to determine the outcome of a match, gives an unfair advantage to the team taking the first penalty in each pair of spot kicks.
"The hypothesis is that the player taking the second kick in the pair is under greater mental pressure, because if the opposition's first penalty in the pair has been successful, a miss by the second penalty-taker in the pair could mean the immediate loss of a match for his team, especially from the fourth pair of penalties onwards -- i.e. the seventh and eighth spot kicks."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
As plans for a European super league start to emerge, the FC crew discuss how it would work and how it would impact European and global football. (5:33)
A breakaway European Super League would have "serious and lasting implications" for professional football across the continent, the European Leagues group (EL), which represents domestic leagues, said on Tuesday.
German magazine Der Spiegel and European Investigative Collaborations, a network of international media, reported on Friday that plans for a Super League involving clubs such as Real Madrid and Manchester United were back on the table.
Citing leaked documents, Der Spiegel said a fresh plan had recently been drafted for Real Madrid by Spanish company Key Capital Partners. The plan foresees 11 top European clubs creating a Super League in 2021.
Key Capital Partners and Madrid have not commented on the report, while the European Club Association, which represents more than 200 European clubs, said it was not aware of discussions by clubs to develop a breakaway league.
The EL, which represents 25 domestic leagues including England's Premier League, Germany's Bundesliga and Spain's La Liga, voiced its "strong opposition" to any such plan on Tuesday.
"The European Leagues note the ongoing rumours and speculations around the possible creation of a European Super League by the big European professional clubs," it said.
"[EL] has consistently voiced its strong opposition to the creation of any 'closed and franchised style' Super League.
"The Leagues supports the European sports model based on a pyramid structure where the mechanisms of promotion and relegation and the sporting merits of clubs are at the core of any competition."
The statement said domestic football was at "the heart of the game throughout Europe" for players, clubs and fans.
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

"Proposals for a closed Super League will have serious and lasting implications for the long term sustainability of professional football in Europe," it said.
It said it "fully supported" European football's governing body UEFA in the organisation of the Champions League and Europa League and "shares with UEFA the common principle of protecting and enhancing competitive balance in European football."
The EL recently presented its own suggestions for the format of European club competitions in the next three-year cycle, starting in 2021, which it said would ensure a more equal distribution of revenue.
According to Der Spiegel, the 16-team Super League would replace the Champions League from 2021 and include 11 "founders" who could not be relegated for the first 20 years.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The Rizal Memorial Stadium in Manila is closer to downtown than most Asian stadiums. It is also small and almost falling apart, but it has a sense of history and it certainly witnessed something historic on Tuesday as the Philippines qualified for a first-ever Asian Cup, to be held in 2019.
It was as tense and as tight as the legendary traffic jams in the country's capital, but eventually the national team came from behind to defeat Tajikistan 2-1 and top Group F. It means that next January, the Azkals -- as the national team are nicknamed, a moniker that means "street dogs" in the Tagalog language -- will be heading to the United Arab Emirates with 23 other nations in a newly expanded edition edition of the tournament from 16 back in 2015 to 24 in 2019. It should help, for a while at least, to push the "Three Bs" of boxing, basketball and billiards out of the sports headlines in this former United States territory, giving football the boost it needs.
Such intangibles were not on the minds of players or fans in Manila however. Tuesday was all about getting the result. This was not a game where the performance mattered if the scoreline was the right one. And it was, just.
It was a strange game and atmosphere in some ways. A point at home to Tajikistan was certainly within reach, after all the Philippines had won 4-3 in Dushanbe last June, but there was tension in Manila. After two wins from the opening two games, the Azkals could have sealed qualification with a game to spare in November but missed their chance against bottom team Nepal.
That 0-0 draw took it to the final game. Perhaps the Azkals were unsure what to do. Needing a point against a team that needed to win, coach Thomas Dooley's men were more reactive than usual, not wishing to make the mistake that led to the goal.
But it came after 64 minutes. Ahktam Nazarov converted from the spot and it looked as if Tajikistan were going to spoil the party and take their first-ever place at the Asian Cup.
The Philippines came back in fine fashion. Ten minutes later, Kevin Ingreso headed home the most vital goal he is likely to score and maybe the biggest to date in the nation's history. And just to settle the nerves, and there were plenty of those, Phil Younghusband scored his 50th international goal from the spot in the final minute. That got the party started, the near miss ahead of the 2015 Asian Cup just adding to the excitement. That late strike also went down well in Yemen as it secured their debut at the tournament, too, ensuring a second-place finish above Tajikistan.
It is also vindication for Dooley. The German-born former United States international has been in place since 2014 but had come under pressure after a disastrous 2016 AFF Suzuki Cup campaign. The Philippines, semifinalists in Southeast Asia's biennial championship in 2010, 2012 and 2014 co-hosted the 2016 event but crashed out after a winless group stage.
Dooley's relationship with star midfielder Stephan Schrock took a turn for the worse and the former Bundesliga player has not featured in recent games. The two have long had a rocky relationship, but after the Nepal setback there was pressure on the coach to bring back the in-form midfielder. Dooley refused. He was always going to be judged on whether the team got to the Asian Cup. Now he can claim vindication.
It remains to be seen if Schrock gets a recall ahead of next January. It is unlikely, though not impossible. If not, there is still plenty of European and international experience to call upon. The midfielder is one of a number of internationals who were born and raised around the world with one parent from the Philippines.
Some of these, such as the Younghusband brothers, Phil and James, who are former Chelsea youth players, play their club football in the Philippines. Some, such as Neil Etheridge, the goalkeeper helping Cardiff City's promotion push to the English Premier League, are still overseas.
This policy of casting the national team net far and wide started about a decade ago and has helped the country become a force in the region. More is needed however. The Philippines Football League, a first professional nationwide league, has just kicked off its second edition but has issues. Two of the eight teams dropped out ahead of the new season, citing financial concerns.
The Asian Cup then comes at the right time to put football back on the back pages. It also comes at the right time for the national team. At the start of the decade, the Philippines were the whipping boys of Southeast Asia. That is no longer the case, but now is their time to be tested on the continental stage.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Carlos Tevez said he accepts that he will not be a regular starter at Boca Juniors this season.
Tevez, who entered as a substitute in the 71st minute of Boca's 6-0 triumph over Alvarado in the Copa Argentina round of 64 on Wednesday, scored the last goal from the penalty spot.
"I'm not the first option for the coach," the former Manchester United and Manchester City striker told TyC Sports after the game.
"I have to give my contribution in the role that I find myself in and I accept it because this is the club that I love. I just have to be ready for when I do play."
Tevez left Boca in December 2016 for a move to Shanghai Shenhua, but injuries and a lack of fitness limited him to four goals and five assists in 16 league appearances.
He returned for a third stint at Boca in January, despite having one year left on his contract with Shenhua, and scored three goals and set up two more in 10 starts to help the club win the Superliga title.
Boca coach Guillermo Barros Schelotto said benching Tevez is nothing personal.
"It seems logical and clear to me," he said after the game. "Our message is that the best will play. Carlos is part of a group that has to row in the same direction, regardless of who plays, and that is how he and the rest understand it."
Barros Schelotto, meanwhile, said he would turn down the Argentina coaching position if offered since he is under contract at Boca.
The Argentina Football Association is looking for a new coach after sacking Jorge Sampaoli following the team's round-of-16 exit in the World Cup.
Cesar Luis Menotti, Argentina's coach for their 1978 World Cup title, considers Schelotto the ideal candidate to replace Sampaoli.
"I'm a person who likes to honour contracts," Barros Schelotto told TyC Sports. "To complete a contract gives you an added value to your career, your titles, your triumphs. ... I'm under contract with Boca until December 31 and until then, I will not speak to anyone. Hence, I'm not on that list, I don't have [the national team] in mind as a possibility."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DORTMUND, Germany -- Borussia Dortmund manager Peter Stoger slammed his team for a lack of passion after a disappointing 1-1 draw at home to Augsburg on Monday.
Marco Reus started and finished the 16th-minute counter-attack move which led to the host's opening goal.
But despite dominating possession, Dortmund did not create many clear-cut chances and to press home their advantage.
They were made to pay 17 minutes from time when Kevin Danso was quickest to react to Roman Burki parrying his header from a corner to follow up and smash home from close range.
"The 1-1 is bitter because we could have built a gap," Stoger, 51, told a news conference after the game.
"But I find that this is exactly what you deserve when you don't show any passion. Today I did not have the feeling that everyone did everything to win the match."
You never walk alone.Except for Mondays. #bvbfca pic.twitter.com/3xK2FTMYSG

As direct Champions League rivals Frankfurt, Leverkusen and Leipzig lost on Matchday 24, BVB could have moved three points clear of third place and five of fifth.
"As a coach, you don't feel comfortable because you want the lads to do more to add a second [after taking the lead]," Stoger continued.
"I'm not satisfied with the match. We were in the lead and we should have kept the pressure up. We had a lot of control without creating any intent to score goals. We just wanted to sit on the lead.
"I can't comprehend it. In the last 10 minutes, we managed to raise our game again. But we wished for that to happen when it was 1-0. Adding a second would have made things much easier. I don't think we are expecting anything impossible of the lads."
The uninspired performance by the home side did not help to improve a hollow atmosphere, as only 54,300 spectators attended the Westfalenstadion, which has a capacity of over 81,000 for domestic games.
Over 350 fan clubs and ultra groups stayed away from the match to protest against the Monday night fixture and for fan-friendlier kick-off times.
Due to the new TV contract, the Bundesliga has introduced six different kickoff times for the 2017-18 campaign, including a new kickoff slot at 1:30 p.m. on Sunday and five matches held on Monday.
"It hurts a lot of fans," Dortmund boss Hans-Joachim Watzke told Eurosport ahead of the game. "The season ticket holders have paid for the game but want to take a stance against the commercialisation.
"You have to take it seriously and accept it. I don't think it's just about the Monday fixture. Rather, the Monday fixture has become a vehicle to air a more general discontent. I did not expect the resentment toward the five Monday fixtures to be that immense."
Dortmund will travel to Leipzig next on Saturday, looking to increase the gap on a direct competitor for the Champions League spots.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Usain Bolt is to have a two day trial at Borussia Dortmund where he says he will see if he is good enough to really go pro. (1:01)
Borussia Dortmund CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke has warned of "an ideological divide in German football" after the German Football League (DFL) voted to keep the 50+1 rule.
The vote, which took place on Thursday, came after a motion tabled by second-tier club St. Pauli.
Under DFL rules, clubs in Germany are not allowed into the upper two tiers if commercial investors have more than a 49 percent stake.
The rule, introduced in 1998, guards German clubs against takeovers and, in theory, ensures that they remain fan-owned.
Eighteen of the 36 clubs from the two upper tiers, including Dortmund, voted to retain it with only four, among them Bayern Munich and RB Leipzig, voting against.
On Monday, Munich CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge hit out at the decision and called those backing retention of the rule "ideologists and nostalgists."
But Watzke said: "We must be careful to not attack those who have another opinion, even more so if that's a majority opinion.
"We must be careful that we don't divide the Bundesliga like German society right now is beginning to be divided. We must learn how to argue with respect."
Watzke called Bundesliga clubs "a cultural asset" and said they should not be sold to foreign investors.
"Once that's in China, we won't get it back, and investments rarely run as smoothly as at Paris [Saint-Germain] or Manchester [City]," he added. "Most of the time, they just fail.
"I have the feeling that there is a dangerous tendency in German football right now, and the fans are fighting it.
"Let's look at over-commercialisation, Monday night games, transfer fees, players on strikes. Some of those things also annoy me.
"There's a load of social dynamite in it. We [Dortmund] have 153,000 members, and I know that most of them want to keep 50+1. Should we decide over their heads?
"Things would just blow up in our faces because, once investors have control, those people will not see any fans -- only customers.
"That's why I am deeply worried about a complete ideological divide in German football."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Mario Gotze's hopes of a place in Germany's World Cup squad remain in the balance after the Borussia Dortmund midfielder played just four minutes against Schalke at the weekend.
Having completed the full 90 minutes at Bayern Munich a fortnight ago, Gotze was benched against Stuttgart and again vs. Schalke, making a late appearance in the 2-0 defeat.
"Mario surely is a talented player, a good player," Stoger told his postmatch news conference. "We had other players who could have started as well. This applies to Mario Gotze as well as other players."
Gotze, the scorer of the 2014 World Cup-winning goal against Argentina, was not selected for the recent international friendlies against Spain and Brazil, and now has only four club games left in which to impress national coach Joachim Low.
Last weekend, Gotze told Bild he was aware that Dortmund's forthcoming games were "extremely important for me" as far as the World Cup was concerned.
Dortmund, meanwhile, have yet to announce their coach for next season but are reportedly still interested in Nice boss Lucien Favre.
On Monday, Austrian outlet Salzburger Nachrichten said BVB were also interested in RB Salzburg coach Marco Rose, who has guided his team to the Europa League semifinals.
Speaking ahead of the Schalke game, Dortmund sporting director Michael Zorc said the club were "extremely grateful" for Stoger's services since December and added: "We have always said that a longer cooperation with Peter is possible."
Speaking to WDR radio on Sunday, Stoger, however, appeared to signal that he was not interested in renewing his deal.
"My contract runs through to June 30, and that's good as it is," the Austrian, who has reportedly received €3 million for his six months at the club, said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Borussia Dortmund loanee Michy Batshuayi will miss the rest of the club season and is a doubt to represent Belgium at the World Cup after injuring ankle ligaments during Sunday's derby defeat against Schalke.
Batshuayi was taken off on a stretcher late in the Ruhr derby, having appeared to roll his ankle, and the striker confirmed Dortmund's fears on Monday.
Well its not good news for now, my season is probably over, and i wont be able to pay @BVB back for their confidence ... 😔 Thank you all the amazing amount of love I received since yesterday. Wishing my teammates the best for the final days. See you soon ❤️ pic.twitter.com/GORkrFz9kk

"Well its not good news for now, my season is probably over, and i won't be able to pay @BVB back for their confidence," Batshuayi wrote on Twitter.
"Thank you all the amazing amount of love I received since yesterday. Wishing my teammates the best for the final days. See you soon."
Batshuayi has scored nine times in 14 games since joining Dortmund from Chelsea on loan in the winter transfer window in a deal that runs out at the end of this campaign.
Dortmund coach Peter Stoger had suspected Batshuayi would be sidelined as the club fights to hang onto the final Champions League qualification place, saying after the game that he "didn't think it looked like the kind of injury that he would be back from quickly."
Dortmund's statement confirming Batshuayi's injury said it was "in the realm of possibility" he could recover in time for the World Cup.
The 24-year-old appeared in half of Belgium's World Cup qualifiers, scoring once in two starts and three substitute appearances. Belgium will face Panama, Tunisia and England in the group state at the World Cup in June.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Borussia Dortmund midfielder Christian Pulisic said that a bit a of luck was involved in scoring a late winner on his birthday against Club Brugge in a 1-0 Champions League victory on Tuesday night.
Pulisic, who replaced Champions League debutant Jadon Sancho in the 69th minute to make his 100th appearance for Dortmund, stuck his leg out to deflect the ball over goalkeeper Karlo Letica and into the net.
"It was great to come back after a small injury and being with the team again," Pulisic, who turned 20 years old on Tuesday, told Sky. "Obviously, it's great to get a goal although it may have been a bit lucky but I'll take it on my birthday so I'm very excited.
"I just saw the ball the being played through. It looked like Marco [Reus] wanted to get a touch to it and then the defender just tried to clear it and I was just in the right spot at the right time to get my leg in and it went perfectly into the goal. Like I said, I'll take it. I think we deserved a goal on the day."
Asked if there was going to be cake waiting for him after the match, Pulisic replied: "We'll see, I hope so. Some cake would be nice. I'm just going to enjoy the rest of the night with my team."
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

Meanwhile, teammate Marco Reus was not in the mood to sugarcoat the fortunate three points.
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

The team captain told Sky: "We were absolutely terrible going forward, we did not create any scoring chances whatsoever. We did not position well in the dangerous areas against five defenders. Our movement was not good either.
"Brugge had a couple of good chances in the first half where we were fortunate not to concede. We'll gladly take the dirty win because it is important to start the Champions League on a high note."
Dortmund coach Lucien Favre agreed with Reus' assessment of the performance, saying after the game: "It was a tough one. It was no coincidence that the game would be hard for us because Brugge are on top of the Belgian league, which is a difficult championship. They ran a lot and were very athletic. They utilised their wings well and played with a lot of pace. They got tired about 60 minutes into the game and we could profit from that.
"We didn't have enough movement up front to find solutions [on the ball], which is why we didn't create any chances. The goal might have been lucky in the end, but the through ball from Mo Dahoud was terrific. Reus made a good run into space, provoking the defender to make the clearance that ultimately led to [Pulisic's] goal.
"It's great that we've won but we mustn't have too high expectations. We have a lot of young players who are 18, 19 years old and also a lot of new players in midfield. It will take time. We're OK, we're solid, we can always score a goal, but we have a lot of room for improvement."
Dortmund will face TSG Hoffenheim, FC Nuremberg and Bayer Leverkusen in the Bundesliga within eight days before trying to extend their good start to their Champions League campaign as they host AS Monaco, who lost their opener to Atletico Madrid in the parallel fixture, on Oct. 3.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DORTMUND, Germany -- Borussia Dortmund midfielder Christian Pulisic said that the "awesome" Westfalenstadion was a factor in Wednesday's 4-0 win over Atletico Madrid in the Champions League.
Pulisic, 20, told reporters after the match: "The key for today's win was that we fought until the very end. We know that when we play as we currently do, then the substitutes will come on and score more goals."
It's time to find a way to fix the Champions League -- or start a European super league.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

Axel Witsel scored the opener in the 38th minute, profiting from a deflection. In the second half, substitutes Raphael Guerreiro and Jadon Sancho put their names on the scoresheet with the former grabbing a brace.
The United States international also acknowledged the power of the 12th man in the sold-out Dortmund stadium with an attendance of 66,099 spectators: "Of course, we have quality but we also have an awesome stadium. I think that also made it hard for Atletico today."
Meanwhiile, Witsel, who played an integral part in BVB's resounding win, completing 70 out of 75 passes, knew of the historic magnitude of the result after the game.
"The last time Atletico lost by that many goals was 2009," he said, adding: "Before the game, we knew it was going to be tough because they have a lot of experience in the team. They're used to play in the Champions League semifinal. So we had to play smart and that's what we did. We played really great in the first half. In the second half, the first 20 minutes we allowed Atletico to see too much of the ball, which made them more dangerous. But we remained compact and defended well -- the entire team did. And then we killed them on the counter."
The 29-year-old also explained that he did not regret his move from China to the Bundesliga this summer: "Dortmund are the best team I've ever played for in my career because it's the first time for me playing at the top level. I'm not just talking about BVB but the Bundesliga in general.
"Coming here was a big challenge for me but I knew I had the quality to play here. If not, I would have decided to stay in China. I'm really happy. I didn't expect the team to already play so well because we have a lot of really young players and also a lot of new faces."
Witsel's midfield colleague Thomas Delaney, who had to come off after 35 minutes due to a foot injury, agreed with the Belgium international: "Atletico was a good test for our own maturity. It's still early in the season but this win is a massive step for us."
The Danish international also found praise for Lucien Favre's ability to keep spirits high despite the challenge of coaching a squad of 29 players. Delaney said: "Obviously, we have a big squad and the coach cannot please everyone but he still manages to give us the feeling that we're all one team.
"Even if you don't make the matchday squad, you don't feel left behind. You always know that you can be back in the team the next week. That's important for a team with so many good players. Right now we have that balance where the coach trusts you but at the same time, you know that you have to play very well because there are other players waiting on the bench. The atmosphere in the team is just amazing. For example, all the midfielders are sticking together even though not everyone can play. We're a team and that's just awesome.
"It's also just awesome to see how [Achraf] Hakimi and all these 18, 19-year-olds come and perform. [Centre-back] Dan-Axel Zagadou also played well again today. Awesome. Right now anything is possible. But we also know that bad phases are ahead. That's how football is. Currently, we even score goals from basically out of nothing."
Dortmund are on a roll, having scored four goals in each of their last three games and are yet to lose a game under new coach Favre. Their emphatic home win over Atletico hands them a three-point advantage over the Spanish outfit in Group A, while AS Monaco and FC Brugge are trailing eight points behind the Westphalians after a 1-1 tie in Brugge earlier on Wednesday night.
BVB are looking to extend their three-point lead at the top of the Bundesliga on Saturday against Hertha Berlin.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Jadon Sancho dedicated his winning goal to his late grandmother as Borussia Dortmund won 2-1 at Ruhr rivals Schalke on Saturday.
Dortmund took an early lead through Thomas Delaney's header, but Daniel Caligiuri equalised from the spot before Sancho struck in the 74th minute.
"The goal means everything to my family. Sadly, my grandmother passed away, so that goal was for her," Sancho, 18, told FOX Sports.
"I'm glad that I got the goal and helped the team to get three points."
Coach Lucien Favre praised Sancho's character. "Jadon had a difficult week," Favre said. "He trained at the beginning of the week but then flew to London and came back on Friday.
"He absolutely wanted to train and play the game by all means. He scored a superb goal."
Favre's comments were echoed by captain Marco Reus, who told reporters: "Huge respect for Jadon. He has a great mentality. To train this week as he did, to keep his smile, and to remain focused on the match like he did warrants a big compliment.
"Jadon and Raphael [Guerreiro] combined outstandingly for the winning goal. I'm especially happy for Jadon that he rewarded himself."
Dortmund, who have a nine-point lead over Bayern Munich, extended their advantage over Schalke to 22 points despite not being at their best at the Veltins Arena.
And Reus said a strong defence was key to their success, adding: "We knew that we wouldn't be able to keep our high scoring output of the first quarter of the season up because opponents eventually would be able to decipher us better and set up more defensively.
"It's simply incredible how good our defence is. It's important for us to have that stability. That was once again extremely important, and this win will give us a big confidence boost."
Dortmund will try to reclaim top spot in Champions League Group A from Atletico Madrid when they travel to Monaco on Tuesday. The Bundesliga leaders then host Werder Bremen on Saturday.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Werder Bremen midfielder Nuri Sahin compared former teammate Marco Reus to a Ferrari after Borussia Dortmund beat Werder Bremen 2-1 on Saturday night to extend their winning streak to six games.
Reus scored the winning goal in the 27th minute after Paco Alcacer had opened the scoring 19 minutes into the game. Max Kruse's wonderful strike from distance 10 minutes before half-time wasn't enough for the guests to come away with a point, though.
Sahin, 30, singled out Reus as the main source of Bremen's problems after the game.
"The problem is Marco playing between the lines. When a Ferrari or Lamborghini plays between the lines it gets very difficult," Sahin said.
It was an emotional day for Sahin, who returned to the Westfalenstadion for the first time since joining Bremen in the summer, receiving a warm greeting from the Dortmund fans before and after the game.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
On Feb. 8, a fire at an uninspected youth dorm at Flamengo killed 10 young players. How?

The central midfielder came through BVB's youth ranks and remains the youngest Bundesliga debutant at 16 years old. He was the key-player in BVB's first championship under Jurgen Klopp in 2010-11 before joining Real Madrid. He rejoined the Westphalians after unsuccessful stints at the Bernabeu and at Liverpool in 2013.
"It was very special to be here, to be back at home," Sahin said. "It was a strange feeling to play here as an opponent, but on the other hand it was very nice to be here and see the fans today."
Meanwhile, Dortmund were crowned as the unofficial "Herbstmeister" (autumn champions) on Saturday since they cannot be knocked out of first place before the end of the year with a nine-point lead over Borussia Monchengladbach and FC Bayern and only two rounds left to play in December.
Team captain Reus was, however, not fully pleased with his team's performance. He told Sky after the game: "We didn't play well in the second half. We just should have made it 3-1. Ahead of Christmas, these games cost a lot of energy. We could have easily avoided that today."
BVB coach Lucien Favre agreed with the 29-year-old, telling his news conference: "Marco has it right. We were up 2-0 early and you mustn't concede then. That made it much tougher. Bremen played very well in a 4-4-2 diamond. They outnumbered us in midfield and found the gaps too easily. We will correct that.
"Bremen had too much possession as we couldn't win the ball often enough. Fifty-two percent possession is not enough for our standards. That makes the match very problematic for us. However, it wasn't undeserved to win and we should have scored the 3-1 sooner."
Dortmund will travel to 16th-placed Fortuna Dusseldorf on Tuesday night before hosting second-placed Gladbach on Friday night to close out 2018.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The FC crew answer your tweets on Brendan Rodgers' new job at Leicester, Jadon Sancho beating out Kylian Mbappe in the Player Power Rankings and more. (10:14)
Borussia Dortmund's Jadon Sancho still has a lot to learn, coach Lucien Favre said ahead of Tuesday's Champions League match against Tottenham.
Sancho has made a huge impression since moving to Dortmund from Manchester City, but has struggled to produce his best form in recent weeks.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
On Feb. 8, a fire at an uninspected youth dorm at Flamengo killed 10 young players. How?

With several of Dortmund's young players -- including Achraf Hakimi, Christian Pulisic, Dan-Axel Zagadou and Jacob Bruun Larsen -- also struggling for form, Favre told reporters that talent was not everything.
"Jadon is very talented, but also only 18 years old," he said when asked about Sancho's displays in recent weeks. "At that age, you go through a lot of ups and downs.
"He has a lot of potential, but also still a lot to learn. They [the young Dortmund players] all have talent but, without work, talent does not exist. It's 10 percent talent and 90 percent work."
Sancho is likely to start as Dortmund attempt to overturn a 3-0 deficit against Spurs after the first leg at Wembley, and captain Marco Reus said he believed the players could "achieve the impossible" at the Westfalenstadion.
"Several matches which have written history have been played in our stadium," he said.
"It's possible to achieve the impossible. We must believe in ourselves. We have belief, and we must have belief."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tite has been officially appointed the new manager of Brazil, the Brazilian federation has announced.
The ex-Corinthians manager, who last week was tipped to succeed former national team boss Dunga by club president Roberto de Andrade, was confirmed by the Brazilian federation on Monday.
"It's official! Tite is the coach of the Brazilian national team,'' read a statement on the federation's website.
"On Monday afternoon, Adenor Leonardo Bacchi was officially presented as the new commander of Canarinho.''
Tite, whose given name is Adenor Leonardo Bacchi, had led the Sao Paulo giants to two Brazilian championships, a Copa Libertadores and Club World Cup crowns over his two successful spells with the club.
The 55-year-old Rio Grande do Sul native had been considered the most suitable Brazilian candidate to take the reins from Dunga, and had been a longtime target of CBF.
Dunga and national team coordinator Gilmar Rinaldi were dismissed following Brazil's controversial exit in the group stages of the Copa America Centenario last week.
"Now the time has come, I understood that I should accept being coach of the Brazilian national team and that should be part of my career,'' Tite said at his introductory news conference.
"It's a personal goal and perhaps my best professional moment."
Brazil's elimination in the competition came a year after falling in the quarterfinals to Paraguay at the 2015 Copa America in Chile -- also under Dunga's watch.
Tite inherits a Brazil who are sixth in South American World Cup qualifying, one spot out of the qualification zone. He said his focus is on getting Brazil to Russia for the 2018 World Cup.
"The focus is the qualification for the World Cup and we are not in the qualification zone," he said. "There is the risk [of being out]. If you don't accept that, you will be fighting against reality.
"I am here because unfortunately the results did not come. But there is a potential for us to grow and aim for a spot."
In 2015, Tite signed a petition for the removal of federation president Marco Polo Del Nero, who can be arrested if he travels outside Brazil amid accusations of involvement in the FIFA scandal unveiled last year.
Tite, who will be joined at the national team by his son, Matheus Bacchi, as well as the club's former director of football, and longtime Arsenal midfielder, Edu Gaspar, didn't try to defend Del Nero against the accusations, instead focusing on his own job.
"The invitation is to be Brazil's coach. It is the best way for me to help with my life principals of transparency, democratization, excellence and modernity," he said. "I think it has to be like that in every area."
He also indicated that Barcelona star Neymar won't continue as permanent captain. Tite's teams usually make a rotation for that role and he said that is "the ideal for a team."
Asked about the playing style he wants to implement, he said there will be a lot of overlapping, passing and organization.
"The team doesn't need to have Tite's face, it needs to have Brazil's face," he said. "It is individual skills allied to quality as a team."
Tite's first challenges as Brazil coach will be in September in World Cup qualifiers. His debut will be against Ecuador away on Sep. 2. Four days later his team will host Colombia in Manaus.
The Associated Press and Press Association contributed to the report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola avoided backing Gabriel Jesus to start over Roberto Firmino as Brazil's No. 1 striker at the World Cup this summer, telling ESPN Brazil it's "a debate."
Firmino enjoyed a breakout season for Liverpool in 2017-18, reaching a career high in goals (27) in 53 matches thus far. However, Jesus, who Brazil boss Tite has said will enter World Cup camp as the starting No. 9, saw his campaign hindered by injuries, which has opened the debate in the Brazilian media over who should be the Selecao's first choice this summer.
Guardiola has coached Jesus since the 21-year-old moved to the Etihad from Palmeiras in January 2017, but told ESPN Brazil that the national team is lucky to have both players to choose from.
Asked how he viewed the Jesus-versus-Firmino situation, Guardiola said: "It's Tite's problem, not mine. But it's a debate.
"I can imagine what Brazil can be like in a World Cup on a media level. If you play one, you have to play the other, if you play the other, you have to play the one. It's an endless discussion.
"Lucky for Brazil that they have two incredible strikers."
Jesus has scored nine goals in 15 appearances for his country, which included a number of stunning performances in crucial World Cup qualifiers this term as well as the lone goal in a friendly defeat of Germany in Berlin back in March. Firmino, meanwhile, has scored just five goals in 18 chances with the Selecao, and only once on Tite's watch.
Guardiola added: "Gabriel has an energy, his desire is contagious, his movement ... I think that this will calm down with age. Firmino is older, has already played in other places.
"I think Gabriel never will lose the energy and it's wonderful in solidarity with his quality, but with time he'll be a wiser player, he'll understand when to make that movement and another.
"Firmino is an older player, with impressive quality, I met him at Hoffenheim. He's a player who knows how to play, is a goalscorer like Gabriel. [Brazil] have two fantastic strikers."
Guardiola's coaching journey has taken him to La Liga, the Bundesliga and the Premier League and he's learned lessons at each stop.
"In Spain, I learned a lot since [Johan] Cruyff's arrival, from [legendary Real Madrid sides] Quinta del Buitre. With sports journalists like Jorge Valdano, Santiago Segurola," he said. "People who helped us to understand what Spain means as a national team, and Spanish teams winning every year in the Champions League and Europa League playing in an attractive way, with technique, making La Liga fascinating to watch.
"In Germany, I learned about counter-attacks and how important they are. Also about how well organised the Bundesliga is. The Germans are not only about running and running, but also about playing good football. I was very happy in Germany, especially in Munich.
"Finally, in England I found a very tough league, many fixtures, weather conditions that affect the game, there is a lot of contact, a lot of permissiveness from the referees ... It is a very intense league and we were able to control it all season long."
He's also worked with many of the world's top players and has organised some of the top midfield pairings in recent times, like Xavi and Andres Iniesta at Barcelona, and David Silva and Kevin De Bruyne with City.
"Yes, that I can do. And I'll do it because all four are amazing!" he said, when asked to compare the dynamic duos. "If we had so much success here [Manchester] and in Barcelona that's because of the central midfielders.
"Xavi was a player with outstanding control and dynamic, he couldn't lose the ball. He could control the game rhythm, reading perfectly when to accelerate ... Andres is similar, but always changing the pace. And David Silva is a mixture between both of them. David also knows when to control and when to accelerate. And Kevin is exuberant ... He is not a controller, he is more dynamic, coming from behind, finishing, crossing, appearing here, then there, defending, attacking ... He is a complete player, less control and much more movement. When he stops he is not that effective as Xavi, David and Andres."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus says he's returning to his best form after an MCL injury significantly hampered his season this term.
Brazil boss Tite has indicated he'll initially call on Jesus to be his first-choice No. 9 heading into this summer's World Cup. However, the 21-year-old will face competition from in-form Liverpool forward Roberto Firmino.
Jesus was forced to miss 10 matches at the start of the year after going down with a knee injury against Crystal Palace, and he told ESPN Brazil he is only now returning to his best football despite returning to action in late February.
After scoring a sumptuous stoppage-time winner in City's season-finale at West Ham on Sunday, the former Palmeiras man told the outlet: "I, particularly speaking, have had much better games. However, I am returning normally to my best football. Calmly."
Leading the line for Brazil at a World Cup comes with enormous responsibility, with the likes of Romario and Ronaldo most recently becoming national heroes for their starring performances in the Selecao's 1994 and 2002 triumphs, respectively.
Jesus has been capped by his country just 15 times thus far but has already scored nine goals, and says despite the external pressures, he will be his harshest critic in Russia.
"I am very self-critical and always will be. I think this makes me want to improve, always," he said.
"But just because I'm self-critical and say what I thought of my performance in a game, it doesn't mean I will bring myself down, ever. This is a point that just makes me improve. If I see that I didn't do well, I am going to want to get better, always. This only helps me out."
Because of his injury and then sharing minutes with fellow City striker Sergio Aguero this season, Jesus stands to arrive in Russia fresh, having played in just 42 games in all competitions.
Asked if the rest will benefit him in Russia, Jesus said: "It depends. I, particularly, in my case, I don't think it would be a problem, because I practice very hard, I take care of myself and I'm young.
"So I always want to run, I always want to play. But, of course, I will get there a little less worn out."
One aspect of the World Cup Jesus surely won't tire of, however, is collecting World Cup stickers for his Panini book.
A lifelong collector, Jesus has gotten a thrill out of finally having a sticker of his own to add.
He said: "Man, you look at it and you don't believe it because you used to collect the stickers of so many players and, today, yours is there. You get your own and you see everyone talking about it, you see everyone wanting to get your sticker.
"This is crazy. It makes me so happy. Sometimes I can't even believe it. It is simply the biggest tournament in the world of football, the most desired by every player in every country. Before, you had an idea. Now you really know what it's like."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Former Brazil and Real Madrid striker Ronaldo was discharged from an Ibiza hospital on Tuesday after suffering "heavy flu" while on holiday.
The 41-year-old was admitted on Friday after reportedly suffering from pneumonia. Hospital sources told Spanish media that Ronaldo left on Tuesday.
Ronaldo, who won the World Cup's Golden Boot as Brazil won a record fifth title in 2002, assured fans on social media on Sunday that he was fine and would soon be ready to go home after suffering "a heavy bout of flu."
Oi pessoal! Já to em casa depois de alguns dias na clínica. Obrigado a todos pelos comentários carinhosos e energia positiva! Mt obrigado tbm à equipe de médicos e enfermeiros. Agora vamos focar no futebol! Essa temporada vai ser incrível e promete mts novidades. pic.twitter.com/8gRds2iFaU

On Tuesday, he wrote: "Hi guys! I'm already at home after a few days at the clinic. Thank you all for your kind messages and positive energy! Thank you very much to the team of doctors and nurses. Now let's focus on football! This season will be incredible and promises a lot of news."
Ronaldo retired from football in 2011 after a hugely successful career which featured stints at PSV Eindhoven, Barcelona, Inter Milan, AC Milan, Brazilian sides Corinthians and Cruzeiro as well as Real Madrid.
He won the Ballon d'Or award for the best player in the world in 1997 and 2002.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Neymar believes he will benefit from being named Brazil's captain after coach Tite handed him the armband before the friendly against the United States on Friday.
Tite had rotated his captains since being appointed in June 2016, appointing 16 players in total, but decided to end that policy by appointing Neymar the Seleao's permanent captain.
"I accepted [the armband] again because I've learned a lot and I will learn much more, and this responsibility will be a good thing for me," Neymar said at a news conference on Thursday.
Neymar served as Brazil's captain during the Olympics in 2016, when he helped the hosts win the gold medal, but said after the competition that he did not want that responsibility any longer.
He changed his mind shortly thereafter, however, and regained the armband only once -- for a World Cup qualifier against Paraguay in March 2017. Miranda, Thiago Silva and Marcelo served as captains during the World Cup, in which Brazil were knocked out in the quarterfinals by Belgium.
Neymar, who returned from a broken right foot to participate in the competition, was fouled 10 times in the opener against Switzerland and was criticised heavily for his theatrics and his exaggeration. He did not speak about his performance immediately after Brazil's exit, only writing on Instagram that it was the "saddest moment" of his career.
"I was targeted by many critics [who said] a lot of bad things, and I wasn't OK at that very moment to speak, Neymar said on Thursday. "So, when I'm not OK to speak, I prefer to stay silent because the silence is the best answer."
Neymar said that being named captain is the best way to end the criticism, but when asked to explain why he reacted the way he did during World Cup games, he chose not to address it directly.
"I don't have much to say about it," he said. "I take the ball in 11 times, and 10 of those times, I [get fouled]. They won't let me pass without giving me a little [contact]. I can't ask them, 'Hey, excuse me, let me score.' I suffered lots of fouls during the World Cup, but it happened. It's another lesson for me."
Tite said at a news conference that part of the reason why he chose Neymar as captain is to help him develop.
"Time goes by and people grow and mature," Tite said. "All this time we've been with Neymar, we've faced important situations that he has judged appropriately, so he's ready to take that step forward."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Brazil coach Tite opened a news conference on Monday by responding to U.S. President Donald Trump's recent criticism of his team's World Cup performance, holding up his left hand to signify the five titles Brazil has won over the history of the competition.
Trump joked with a reporter during a ceremony at the White House last month that Brazil "had a little problem" in the World Cup, referring to the national team's quarterfinal loss to Belgium in July.
But Tite, whose team will face El Salvador at FedEx Field in Landover, Maryland, on Tuesday, began his news conference after a training session at Audi Field in Washington with a rebuttal of Trump's comments.
"My response to Trump is that we have five world titles," Tite said. "Perhaps historically, he can better inform himself."
Trump welcomed FIFA president Gianni Infantino and U.S. Soccer president Carlos Cordeiro to the White House on Aug. 28 to recognize the United States' successful bid, along with Canada and Mexico, to host the World Cup in 2026.
Raquel Krahenbuhl, a reporter from Brazil's GloboNews, had begun to ask a question during the ceremony when Trump interjected, asking where she was from.
After saying she is from Brazil, she said, "We have the best team in the world," to which Trump responded, "Except you had a little problem last time, right?"
Brazil won the World Cup in 1994, the last time it was held in the U.S., and most recently won the competition in 2002. It also won it in 1958, 1962 and 1970.
Tite offered no further comment about Trump after his initial remarks, which came three days after Brazil defeated the U.S. 2-0 in a friendly at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Neymar has labelled his booking for simulation during Brazil's 5-0 victory over El Salvador a "lack of respect."
The Paris Saint-Germain forward picked up a yellow card in the first-half at the FedExField in Washington following an altercation in the penalty box. Neymar was booked for going to ground following the incident and was critical of the decision after the match.
"I do not know what to do to live with this," the 26-year-old told Globo Esporte. "I should not have to stand for a tackle like this.
"I feel it needs to end, but it's not up to me -- so much so that I did not say anything, I just carried on with my football. It is a lack of respect. Not just with me but with my teammates as well."
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.

Neymar was critical of referee Jair Marrufo and explained that, even if the official did not think it was a spot-kick, the decision to give him a booking was excessive.
"Playing with a yellow is difficult," Neymar added. The guy [Marrufo] comes here to officiate a game for Brazil, which is a huge team, and he does this. I don't feel that's right.
"If he doesn't want to give the penalty, no problem, but the card was unnecessary."
Neymar opened the scoring with a penalty after four minutes before a Richarlison double as well as goals from Philippe Coutinho and Marquinhos completed the scoring.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Brazil will play Uruguay in a friendly on Nov. 16 at London's Emirates Stadium.
The Brazilian football confederation said on Tuesday that it has yet to pick an opponent for their last friendly of the year, which will also take place in November.
Brazil and Uruguay are preparing for next year's Copa America, which will be played in Brazil in June.
Brazil's coordinator Edu Gaspar said the choice for Uruguay is based on the idea of trying to play against increasingly tough opponents ahead of the tournament.
Brazil have played the United States and El Salvador since being eliminated in the World Cup quarterfinals against Belgium.
On Friday the team will play against Saudi Arabia. Four days later they take on Argentina, who will not have star Lionel Messi for the match.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Brazilian striker Coutinho, a 1962 World Cup winner who Pele considered his favorite attacking partner at Santos FC, has died. He was 75.
Santos announced Coutinho's death in a statement on Twitter on Monday. The club said he died at home and his funeral will be at Santos' stadium.
The cause of Coutinho's death was not immediately released. In January, he was taken to a hospital because of pneumonia, and he also suffered from diabetes.
While Pele was dazzling the world as a 17-year-old sensation at the 1958 World Cup, Coutinho was having his debut at Santos at age 14.
He scored 368 goals for the club. Pele netted 1,091 for the Brazilian team.
They played together at Santos from 1958 to 1967.
Coutinho played only 15 times for Brazil, which he blamed on a series of injuries.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The crew weigh up Neymar's level after he fell outside the top 10 in ESPN Brazil's poll of greatest post-Pele players for the Selecao. (1:31)
Brazil and Colombia will play a friendly at Miami's Hard Rock Stadium on Sept. 6, the two federations have announced.
The game will be Brazil's first following the 2019 Copa America tournament, which they will host this summer. And it will be the first of three matches the five-time world champions will play at the venue over the next four years.
The South American powers have played six times in the past seven years, with the most important coming in the 2014 World Cup quarterfinals.
Brazil won that match 2-0 in a physical encounter in which Neymar carted off with a back injury that kept him sidelined the remainder of the tournament.
The Copa America, which runs from June 14 to July 7, could see the teams meet before the scheduled friendly.
Brazil have been drawn in Group A while Colombia were placed in Group B.
Overall, the two countries have played 30 times with Brazil winning 18 against just three Colombia victories and nine draws.
In addition to the match, the venue also announced Ecuador and Venezuela will play on June 1.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Burnley goalkeeper Nick Pope's season continues to improve after he signed a new three-year contract.
The 25-year-old made his Premier League debut last month as a substitute after established number one Tom Heaton dislocated his shoulder in the home win over Crystal Palace.
Pope, whose new contract includes the option for an additional 12 months, is likely to play the majority of the season as Heaton has been ruled out for several months after an operation.
"I'm delighted to sign a new contract and extend my stay here,'' Pope, who joined the club from Charlton in the summer of 2016, told burnleyfootballclub.com.
"I've been really happy since I signed last year, so I'm really pleased to get it done.
"We are still growing as a club and I'm growing as a player. That's what I wanted to do when I first signed.
BREAKING: Nick Pope signs new long-term deal at Turf Moor. Read: https://t.co/BMLbFPcXa5
"It's been lucky on my part how it's come about - a bit by default - but I've really enjoyed it since I've been in the team.
"The lads in front of me have been excellent and helped me a lot, especially the two centre-halves.
"It's been a good few weeks for me personally as well.
"Everyone at the club is happy we've made a good start and we've got to build on that now.''
In addition to the goalless 54 minutes he played against Palace, Pope has kept clean sheets in two of his four starts and also put in an impressive performance in the 1-1 draw against Liverpool at Anfield.
Talks had already begun this season on a new deal before his sudden elevation to the starting line-up.
"We were already in discussions with Nick before he had the chance to start the games he has done recently and we're pleased they have been finalised,'' said manager Sean Dyche.
"He had been working hard to continue his development out of the team.
"He is continuing that since he got into the side and we look forward to him progressing further as an important member of the squad.''
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Sean Dyche looks back on his time in charge of Burnley, and reveals how he expects the club to continue moving forward. (2:10)
Burnley and England goalkeeper Nick Pope faces up to three months out of action with a shoulder injury, sources have told ESPN FC.
Pope suffered a dislocated shoulder during last week's Europa League draw with Aberdeen following a collision with Sam Cosgrove.
The 26-year-old was forced off after just 14 minutes with the injury and Pope went to see a specialist earlier on Monday to find out the full extent of the injury.
Scans have revealed that Pope will need to undergo surgery on the injured shoulder and is likely to miss the first three months of the new Premier League season.
The news is a major blow for Burnley boss Sean Dyche as Pope had established himself as Burnley's No.1 keeper last season and worked his way into the England squad following an outstanding campaign.
Pope was part of England's World Cup squad in Russia and won his first cap against Costa Rica in a friendly in June.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Bidvest Wits coach Gavin Hunt is intending to overhaul his squad at the conclusion of the PSL season and has revealed that the Clever Boys' resources are stretched as they attempt to battle on multiple fronts.
Wits are away at Nigerian heavyweights Enyimba in a CAF Confederation Cup Playoff Round second-leg tie on Wednesday, with the two sides having drawn 1-1 in Johannesburg in the first leg.
As well as their continental responsibilities, the reigning South African champions are also coming to the conclusion of a testing Absa Premiership campaign, having failed miserably in their title defence.
After winning the PSL title for the first time in their history, Wits have struggled to maintain their domestic momentum, and sit tenth on 32 points with four games to play.
"It has been a poor season for us," Hunt told journalists, as reported by the Independent. "We needed an overhaul [of the squad], we didn't do it.
"We'll do it now. We need a positive response in the remaining matches because people are playing for their careers."
In the meantime, Wits are focusing on salvaging their continental campaign.
They were eliminated from the CAF Champions League in the First Round after falling to a 3-2 penalty shootout defeat by Angola's Primeiro de Agosto, but could yet reach the Confed Cup group stage if they can down Enyimba.
"The trip to Nigeria doesn't help us, because we don't have a squad of players to go on a couple of fronts and then come back and play on Sunday," added Hunt. "We go on Monday and then come back from Nigeria on Friday.
"We don't even know where we are going," he continued. "It's crazy.
"That's what is in front of us. We had a great start in the league in the second half of the season, but we then ran out of legs and numbers in certain positions.
"We've had to change here and there and that hasn't helped us. Africa hasn't helped us because we don't have the resources to go across all fronts. It is a problem."
Wits head into Wednesday's clash having won just once in their last seven matches. They were defeated 2-0 at Mamelodi Sundowns - their would-be successors as champions - on Saturday.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Cameroon midfielder Landry N'Guemo has revealed his difficult situation in Turkey, where he doesn't know why he has been deemed surplus to requirements at Kayserispor.
The former Bordeaux man joined the Anatolian Star from Akhisar Belediyespor on a two-and-a-half-year deal in January, having previously represented Celtic, Saint-Etienne and Nancy.
However, in a recent interview with Foot Mercato, the 31-year-old has shed light on how he has been ostracised from the first team and made to train away from the first team.
"I restarted training with Kayserispor as normal, but overnight the club chiefs let me know that I needed to find another club and they put me apart from the first team," the midfielder began. "I still have two years left on my contract.
"Today, I'm still training to keep my physical fitness with a group separate from the first team, which also includes [Comorian and former Toulouse keeper] Ali Ahamada," he continued. "This situation has been going on for two months."
The Yaounde-born defensive midfielder has represented the Indomitable Lions at two World Cups, and also featured for the Central Africans at the 2008 and 2010 Africa Cup of Nations tournaments.
"I've spoken with the current coach, but it's not up to him to make the decision about my return to the first team," N'Guemo continued. "Our conversation went well, but the chiefs have made it known that I need to find a new escape route, without giving me the chance to play.
"You know, things are strange in Turkey."
As well as N'Guemo and Ahamada, there is a considerable African contingent at Kayserispor, with Asamoah Gyan, Ryan Mendes, Stephane Badji and Jean-Armel Kana-Biyik also on the club's books.
"I have to find...a way to end my contract," N'Guemo added. "They have to respect it because I still have two years left.
"We have a few months in which we can find a solution, but either I need to return to the squad or I go elsewhere. For the time being, nothing is on the horizon as the transfer window is closed, we're waiting until January to discuss with the [club] management.
"From my point of view, I have to do all I can to be fit," he concluded. "That's my only focus."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CAF President Ahmad Ahmad has warned Cameroon that they must step up their preparation if they're to retain hosting rights for the 2019 African Cup of Nations.
Cameroon's ability to host the biennial African football showpiece has been under increasing scrutiny since the Confederation of African football voted - at the CAF Symposium in Rabat in July 2017 - to extend the competition from 16 teams to 24.
Speaking at the Caf 40th Ordinary General Assembly in Casablanca on Friday, Ahmad confirmed that, following an inspection of the country, Cameroon are still falling short of expectations and must improve their efforts if they're to retain hosting rights.
"There was already an inspection by the company, Roland Berger, who make their analysis and then propose to the executive committee which decision to take," Ahmad told journalists. "They were in charge of auditing the infrastructure and organisational issues for the tournament.
"Between the inspection reports and the specifications, there's still a deficit," the Malagasy football administrator added. "As a result, Cameroon were told to double up."
Representatives from global strategy company and independent assessors Roland Berger toured Cameroon between January 12 and 23 in order to asses the nation's preparations.
The competition is set to be staged in five cities across Cameroon - Bafoussam, Douala, Garoua, Limbe and Yaounde - with the venues each in different states of readiness.
"There are people who are lying," he continued. "I am a man of my word, and my Executive Committee won't make any changes to the decisions made at the Symposium.
"We will apply the regulations with vigour, the key actors in football want a better AFCON in all areas.
"The specifications require infrastructure, hotels, stadiums, hospitals and a lot more. These are all priorities now."
As reported by BBC Sport, Ahmad has previously acknowledged that CAF will find an alternative Nations Cup host if Cameroon ultimately fail to demonstrate their preparedness.
According to Africa News, Morocco, hosts of the ongoing African Nations Championship, are committed to hosting the 2019 event should Cameroon have hosting rights taken off them.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Former French international and manager Henri Michel passed away on Tuesday morning at the age of 70.
Michel played 58 times for his country between 1967 and 1980, and later guided the Olympic and senior Les Bleus sides.
He led the Olympic side to the gold medal at the 1984 Games in Los Angeles, beating Brazil 2-0 in the final. Under his guidance the senior side reached the semifinals of the 1986 World Cup before defeat to West Germany.
Michel briefly managed Paris Saint Germain in 1990, but then spent the rest of his career almost exclusively in Africa.
He led Cameroon (1994), Morocco (1998) and Ivory Coast (2006) to the World Cup finals, and also managed Tunisia (2001-2002), Equatorial Guinea (2011) and Kenya (2012), his last job.
He also managed a number of major clubs throughout Africa, including Raja Casablanca, Zamalek and Mamelodi Sundowns.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Malky Mackay and Iain Moody will not face any disciplinary action over controversial text messages sent while the pair were working at Cardiff, the Football Association has announced.
The FA announced in August last year that it was investigating after Cardiff sent a dossier containing private messages between Mackay, the club's former manager, and Moody, the club's former head of recruitment, between June 2011 and March 2014.
The Daily Mail had published details of the messages, which Mackay said were "regrettable," although he also expressed concern about "seriously inaccurate and misleading reports" in the media.
The FA has now said that, following a "thorough and detailed investigation" that lasted almost a year, it will not bring charges against either Mackay or Moody but said there had been discussions with both over their conduct.
A statement read: "To date, The FA's policy in cases such as this has been to not bring charges in respect of private communications sent with a legitimate expectation of privacy.
"The FA's investigation looked at all aspects of the communications, including the context in which the communications were sent. The evidence was then reviewed by a QC with particular expertise in sports' disciplinary proceedings and employment law.
"Having assessed the evidence, and in light of the finding that the communications were sent with a legitimate expectation of privacy, The FA will not be taking disciplinary action against Iain Moody and Malky Mackay in connection with the content of those messages.
"However, The FA has spoken to both Iain Moody and Malky Mackay about the inappropriateness of terms used in the messages. Both individuals have acknowledged that such terms are not acceptable. Mr Mackay has also voluntarily undertaken equality and diversity training."
Former Cardiff player Ibrahim Farah had reportedly accused Mackay of racism after the controversy emerged, while the reported text messages had referred to ethnicity in discussions on player recruitment.
However, the FA statement said it had also investigated whether there had been any evidence of discriminatory behaviour in the pair's work at Cardiff and nothing had yet come to light.
The statement added: "The FA has pursued every lead and encouraged anybody who wanted to provide information or evidence to do so. Malky Mackay and Iain Moody have been interviewed at length and 27 potential witnesses, based in the UK and overseas, have been spoken to.
"All of the information and evidence gathered during this process has been carefully assessed, with the assistance of a QC. At this stage no disciplinary charges will be brought against either Malky Mackay or Iain Moody in respect of their conduct whilst they were employed by Cardiff City FC.
"The FA has reached its decisions based on the information and evidence currently available to it. Should more information or evidence come to light then The FA reserves the right to bring disciplinary action as appropriate."
Explaining the length of the investigation, the FA added: "The investigation has been lengthened considerably due to serious concerns about the circumstances in which particular evidence provided to The FA had been given and the reliability and completeness of that evidence.
"The FA reserves the right to open further investigations if deemed appropriate. No further comment will be made in this respect."
Mackay, who had been sacked by Cardiff in December 2013, returned to management in November in a brief stint with Wigan, which had brought criticism from Bluebirds owner Vincent Tan.
Moody, who had been appointed a role as sporting director at Crystal Palace in November 2013 after being sacked by Cardiff the previous month, resigned his post at Selhurst Park when the text messages came to light.
Anti-racism campaign group Kick it Out, which seeks to tackle racism and discrimination within football, has hit out at the move.
We have released a statement following @FA verdict on Malky Mackay and Iain Moody: http://t.co/IlQ0cPiONW
- Kick It Out (@kickitout) July 16, 2015
A statement said: "Kick It Out is of the view that The Football Association has damaged its own credibility and anti-discrimination policies by taking the decision not to charge former Cardiff City and Wigan Athletic manager Malky Mackay and Iain Moody, a former employee of Cardiff and Crystal Palace, for alleged racist, anti-Semitic, sexist and homophobic comments revealed by the Daily Mail in August 2014.
"The FA has continued to maintain a distinction between public and private communications.
"These messages were exchanged via work phones and emails, and when they did eventually emerge into the public domain, it became clear to many people that such held and expressed views had brought the game into disrepute unless dealt with effectively and expeditiously.
"Once the messages were disclosed, there was a clear public interest in action being taken. Mackay and Moody admitted their involvement and this is clearly an abrogation of responsibility on the part of the FA. The review currently being undertaken by the FA of its unwritten policy on dealing with 'private communication' is lamentably late in the day.
"It is Kick It Out's view that the FA needed to take a strong position to help prove football's 'zero-tolerance' approach towards discriminatory practices.
"Instead, we have another example of the status quo being reinforced, and discriminatory practices being allowed to flourish in 'no-go' areas such as within the exclusivity of boardrooms, training grounds and dressing rooms, and via private communication networks. "How can anybody truly challenge discrimination and prejudiced attitudes in football with confidence now?
"The apparent reluctance to punish comments and behaviour considered as 'banter' or 'light-hearted culture' within these settings is entirely damaging. It is an insult to those affected by discrimination and offers the prospect of further victimisation if they are to take a stand and confront it.
"Too many people capable of discriminating operate in private, and they are acutely aware of what will land them in trouble if they act this way in the presence of others. The outcome of the FA's investigation in this case, after such an exhaustive process lasting nearly a whole year, will empower these individuals.
"The case symbolised a serious challenge to the leadership of football and sadly the FA has missed a key opportunity to send out a message to individuals who use private communications to express such unacceptable views."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Neil Warnock reveals he had the chance to speak with Emiliano Sala's mother the evening before his funeral services and says there are "what ifs" that will linger. (1:14)
Tributes were paid to footballer Emiliano Sala on Saturday at a special memorial in his home region of Santa Fe, Argentina.
The body of the 28-year old, who died in a plane crash last month, was laid out in a gymnasium in the town where he grew up so friends and family could pay their last respects.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.
A single-engine plane carrying Sala from his French club Nantes to his new team Cardiff City crashed on Jan. 21 in the English Channel, before he could make his debut for the Premier League side.
Wreckage was found on Feb. 3 following a privately funded underwater search and a body was recovered three days later.
Sala's body was flown back to Argentina and arrived in Buenos Aires on Friday morning before being driven the 538 km (334 miles) to Progreso, where he grew up.
The gymnasium of the Atletico y Social San Martin de Progreso club hosted boys' teams where Sala played as a child.
Residents in the town of around 2,500 people, many wearing the red and black shirt of the local side with the name EMI on the back, began arriving at about 7 a.m. on Saturday to see the body and pay their last respects.
Outside, fans draped a banner saying, "Emi, nunca caminaras solo" or "Emi, You'll Never Walk Alone."
"It's as if he was a member of my family," said Lucia Torres, who lives nearby. "It's something I can't understand nor accept because it hurts so much. The town has been in darkness since January 21."
Cardiff manager Neil Warnock and the club's chief executive Ken Choo are among those who will attend the funeral this weekend.
"He is my player, he's signed for me," Warnock said of Sala, adding that he'd met with striker's family. "And then you look around the whole village here. It's like the whole village is part of it; I've never known anything like it.
"People showed me pictures where he was four years of age and then seven years and I spoke with his teacher."
"I would like to find a responsible person... someone who says to me, 'This happened', but, well, it seems this was just an accident," said Sala's aunt, Mirta Taffarel.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Celtic secured an unprecedented successive domestic treble in commanding style with a 2-0 Scottish Cup final win over Motherwell at Hampden Park.
In a dominant display Callum McGregor fired the Hoops ahead in the 11th minute and fellow midfielder Olivier Ntcham doubled that lead after 25 minutes with a 25-yard drive.
Brendan Rodgers' side remained in control for the most part against their hard-working but outclassed opponents to also complete the cup double over Well, whom they beat 2-0 in the Betfred Cup final in November.
The historic victory also made it eight wins out of eight at the national stadium for Rodgers since taking over in 2016, a record which bodes well for next season when the Parkhead club will look to continue their domination of the Scottish game, currently underpinned by seven successive Ladbrokes Premiership titles.
Motherwell's undoubted enthusiasm shone from the first whistle.
However, they had first cause to worry as early as the sixth minute when Hoops midfielder Tom Rogic, who scored the winner in last year's final against Aberdeen and who had signed a new five-year deal in midweek, fired a 20-yard shot wide of the target.
The first blow that Well suffered came soon enough.
Lanarkshire concern turned to distress when defender Tom Aldred's header from a Mikael Lustig cross was pounced on by McGregor who brought the ball under control and from 20 yards sent a right-footed shot flying past keeper Trevor Carson.
Minutes later, the Fir Park men were glad to see Parkhead striker Moussa Dembele lifted a Kieran Tierney cut-back over the bar.
However, the second goal was not long in arriving.
When Ntcham walked on to a Dembele lay-off outside the penalty area he drilled the ball low past Carson and into the corner of the net with the help of a slight deflection.
Celtic were matching Motherwell's renowned physicality and their quality was coming to the fore.
Stephen Robinson's side had to defend desperately as the Hoops came at them from all angles, a Rogic shot from 16 yards after another attack just too weak to trouble Carson.
Motherwell striker Curtis Main had lofted an effort over the Celtic bar and forced a good save from returning Hoops keeper Craig Gordon two minutes after the restart, to hint at a comeback.
Celtic retained a threat in their pacey and direct attacks and in the 70th minute, following a McGregor cross from the right, Carson made a fantastic save from Dembele powerful close-range header then saved the Frenchman's second attempt, a drive, with his foot.
Motherwell's spirit was admirable in the latter stages.
Substitute Gael Bigirimana, on for captain Carl McHugh in the 54th minute, cracked the woodwork with a free-kick from 25 yards with 10 minutes remaining.
Celtic, however, might have increased their lead with more diligence in their breaks but that was academic as the final, greeted by roars from the vast Parkhead support, confirmed the double domestic treble for the first time in Scotland.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?

Manchester City's Daniel Arzani has confirmed he requires a knee reconstruction after suffering a torn anterior cruciate ligament.
The injury rules Arzani out of Australia's Asian Cup defence next January and the rest of the European season, where he is on loan at Celtic.
"This is also a very tough time for me as I received the bad news today that I will indeed need an ACL op [operation]," Arzani posted on Instagram on Tuesday after visiting a knee specialist in Spain.
The 19-year-old rising star was hurt when his knee twisted while changing direction 20 minutes into his Celtic debut last week.
Daniel Arzani Jeff Holmes/PA Images via Getty ImagesInitial fears of a torn ACL were confirmed when Arzani visited world-renowned knee surgeon Ramon Cugat in Barcelona.
Cugat has treated numerous high-profile players including Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne, Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus and Argentine ace Sergio Aguero.
Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."


Manchester City's Daniel Arzani has confirmed he requires a knee reconstruction after suffering a torn anterior cruciate ligament.
The injury rules Arzani out of Australia's Asian Cup defence next January and the rest of the European season, where he is on loan at Celtic.
"This is also a very tough time for me as I received the bad news today that I will indeed need an ACL op [operation]," Arzani posted on Instagram on Tuesday after visiting a knee specialist in Spain.
The 19-year-old rising star was hurt when his knee twisted while changing direction 20 minutes into his Celtic debut last week.
Daniel Arzani Jeff Holmes/PA Images via Getty ImagesInitial fears of a torn ACL were confirmed when Arzani visited world-renowned knee surgeon Ramon Cugat in Barcelona.
Cugat has treated numerous high-profile players including Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne, Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus and Argentine ace Sergio Aguero.
Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

Manchester City's Daniel Arzani has confirmed he requires a knee reconstruction after suffering a torn anterior cruciate ligament.
The injury rules Arzani out of Australia's Asian Cup defence next January and the rest of the European season, where he is on loan at Celtic.
"This is also a very tough time for me as I received the bad news today that I will indeed need an ACL op [operation]," Arzani posted on Instagram on Tuesday after visiting a knee specialist in Spain.
The 19-year-old rising star was hurt when his knee twisted while changing direction 20 minutes into his Celtic debut last week.
Daniel Arzani Jeff Holmes/PA Images via Getty ImagesInitial fears of a torn ACL were confirmed when Arzani visited world-renowned knee surgeon Ramon Cugat in Barcelona.
Cugat has treated numerous high-profile players including Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne, Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus and Argentine ace Sergio Aguero.
Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

The injury rules Arzani out of Australia's Asian Cup defence next January and the rest of the European season, where he is on loan at Celtic.
"This is also a very tough time for me as I received the bad news today that I will indeed need an ACL op [operation]," Arzani posted on Instagram on Tuesday after visiting a knee specialist in Spain.
The 19-year-old rising star was hurt when his knee twisted while changing direction 20 minutes into his Celtic debut last week.
Daniel Arzani Jeff Holmes/PA Images via Getty ImagesInitial fears of a torn ACL were confirmed when Arzani visited world-renowned knee surgeon Ramon Cugat in Barcelona.
Cugat has treated numerous high-profile players including Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne, Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus and Argentine ace Sergio Aguero.
Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

"This is also a very tough time for me as I received the bad news today that I will indeed need an ACL op [operation]," Arzani posted on Instagram on Tuesday after visiting a knee specialist in Spain.
The 19-year-old rising star was hurt when his knee twisted while changing direction 20 minutes into his Celtic debut last week.
Daniel Arzani Jeff Holmes/PA Images via Getty ImagesInitial fears of a torn ACL were confirmed when Arzani visited world-renowned knee surgeon Ramon Cugat in Barcelona.
Cugat has treated numerous high-profile players including Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne, Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus and Argentine ace Sergio Aguero.
Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

The 19-year-old rising star was hurt when his knee twisted while changing direction 20 minutes into his Celtic debut last week.
Daniel Arzani Jeff Holmes/PA Images via Getty ImagesInitial fears of a torn ACL were confirmed when Arzani visited world-renowned knee surgeon Ramon Cugat in Barcelona.
Cugat has treated numerous high-profile players including Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne, Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus and Argentine ace Sergio Aguero.
Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

Daniel Arzani Jeff Holmes/PA Images via Getty ImagesInitial fears of a torn ACL were confirmed when Arzani visited world-renowned knee surgeon Ramon Cugat in Barcelona.
Cugat has treated numerous high-profile players including Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne, Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus and Argentine ace Sergio Aguero.
Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

Initial fears of a torn ACL were confirmed when Arzani visited world-renowned knee surgeon Ramon Cugat in Barcelona.
Cugat has treated numerous high-profile players including Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne, Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus and Argentine ace Sergio Aguero.
Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

Initial fears of a torn ACL were confirmed when Arzani visited world-renowned knee surgeon Ramon Cugat in Barcelona.
Cugat has treated numerous high-profile players including Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne, Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus and Argentine ace Sergio Aguero.
Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

Cugat has treated numerous high-profile players including Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne, Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus and Argentine ace Sergio Aguero.
Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

Arzani will have soon have a knee reconstruction, which usually requires at least nine months of rehabilitation.
"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

"Thank you to everyone who has taken the time out of their day to show support and love," Arzani wrote.
"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."

"... This is however the beginning of my journey and I promise to be back better than ever. Day 1 road to recovery starts now."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Celtic manager Brendan Rodgers has confirmed that striker Leigh Griffiths will take some time away from football to focus on personal issues.
Griffiths recovered from injury and illness to return for Celtic in their 5-1 win over Kilmarnock at the weekend, but Rodgers said he will be unavailable for selection indefinitely ahead of their Europa League clash with Red Bull Salzburg.
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

"Leigh will be out of football for a little period of time," Rodgers told a news conference. "He's had ongoing issues for a number of months.
"He's reached a point where it's a struggle for him. We are going to give him all the professional help he needs to get him back in a good place. He's a great guy but football and life is tough for him right now. We want to help him with that and we'll let you know when he's back.
"I'm very close with him. We have a strong relationship but he's had number of issues outside of football.
"The most important thing for managers and coaches is the welfare of players. It's no longer a weakness to talk now. He has all of our support -- the team, the staff and the supporters."
Griffiths has scored 104 goals in 198 games for Celtic in all competitions after joining from Wolves in 2014.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Geoffrey Kondogbia scored his first international goal in the 95th minute of the Central African Republic's 2-2 draw in Rwanda to rescue a last-minute point for the visitors.
The draw extinguishes the Amavubi's feint hopes of reaching their first Africa Cup of Nations since 2004, and keeps alive the CAR's chances of reaching Cameroon next year.
Jacques Tuyisenge scored twice for Rwanda, either side of Habib Habibou's equaliser, before Kondogbia's intervention at the death.
It was the Valencia midfielder's first goal for the Fauves after he completed his nationality switch from France.
The 25-year-old represented Les Bleus five times between 2013 and 2015, but made his CAR debut by captaining the side in the 4-0 defeat by the Ivory Coast last month.
The draw leaves the Central African Republic on five points after five matches, and they could yet overhaul the Ivory Coast - in second - if the Elephants lose away in Guinea later on Sunday.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Olympic sprinter Yohan Blake believes Usain Bolt will prove people wrong given the right training.  (0:49)
Central Coast have made a huge statement of intent, signing Ross McCormack and Tommy Oar to bolster their attacking stocks for the coming A-League season.
McCormack joins the Mariners on a season-long loan deal from Aston Villa, while fringe Socceroos winger Oar has penned a two-year contract.
They are two of the biggest recruitment moves the A-League minnows have made in several years, signalling a major change in thinking -- and spending -- from owner Mike Charlesworth.
McCormack was the competition's equal-third leading scorer last season with 14 goals in just 17 appearances for Melbourne City.
He hasn't played first-team football since the expiry of his injury-replacement stint with City and says he jumped at the chance to return to Australia.
"I'm really excited to get back to Australia," McCormack said.
"The standard of football in Australia is a bit overlooked, I think -- everyone wants to play football the right way and I loved my time with Melbourne."
McCormack said he felt much fitter now than he was when he first signed with City and would bring his family with him this time around.
Oar, meanwhile, arrives at Gosford after a season with Cypriot giants APOEL.
Capped 28 times for the Socceroos, Oar's return to the A-League reunites him with Mike Mulvey, his former junior coach at the Queensland Academy of Sport.
"He's the kind of coach that will show full belief in me and get the best out of me," Oar said.
Oar, 26, is a natural left winger but can also play as an attacking midfielder.
"I know the Mariners have had a difficult couple of years but historically, the Mariners have experienced a lot of success and I believe that I can help put this team back up where they belong," he said.
McCormack and Oar could become a teammate of former sprinter Usain Bolt, who's on trial with the Mariners.
Central Coast haven't qualified for the A-League finals for the past four seasons, having finished bottom of the ladder in two of those campaigns.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Newly named captain Matt Simon says Usain Bolt has made immense strides since arriving at Central Coast but is refusing to shed light on whether the Jamaican superstar will remain at the A-League club.
The Mariners have shut down talk of Bolt signing a contract before their season opener against Brisbane on Sunday as the eight-time Olympic gold medallist continues to trial for a spot.
ESPN exclusively revealed on Tuesday that Valletta FC have tabled a two-year offer to Bolt, who trained with the reserves during the Mariners team session on Wednesday, but Central Coast say they won't be rushed into any knee-jerk response.
Suddenly, after his two-goal performance in a trial against Macarthur South West United at the weekend, the question has shifted from will Bolt earn a contract to will he stay?
Usain Bolt's switch to soccer puts him in some very exclusive company.
Relive the two goals that Usain Bolt scored on his starting debut for the Mariners.
Players who have faced Usain Bolt on the football field open up about their experience.

"I'm not too sure with what's all happening with Usain. It's probably a question for the CEO," Simon said after the media was banned by chief executive Shaun Mielekamp and coach Mike Mulvey from asking questions about Bolt.
"It's not a distraction at all. He's been here for a couple of months now so everywhere we go with Usain, everyone's talking about him so it's just been down to business.
"We're concentrating on the season and just looking forward to round one and putting into practice what we've been doing at training for the last 12 weeks."
Simon, who has played somewhat of a mentor's role to Bolt, conceded the former world's fastest man -- now classified as the Central Coast's fastest man -- had been a morale booster for Mariners after a couple of lean seasons.
"Look, he's been great to have around the change room," the skipper said.
"He's done well. The improvement that he's had over the course of the eight or nine weeks that he's been here has been immense.
"The boys have enjoyed him being here."
But asked if he could see the 32-year-old forcing his way into the squad at any point during the 2018-19 season, Simon was noncommittal.
"That's a question for the hierarchy of the club. It's above my pay grade unfortunately," Simon said after admitting Bolt's brace against Macarthur South West United was impressive.
"Obviously you can see the difference in the standard of the game [between Saturday's trial and the A-League] but it's no discredit to him. He's gone out and done well and he scored two goals.
"So it's a credit to him to go out and do that and I think everyone hasn't stopped talking about it.
"So good on him and we move on to round one."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The Central Coast Mariners have offered Usain Bolt a contract for "much, much less" than what the Olympic great's camp requested, the head of the A-League said.
A-League boss Greg O'Rourke said Bolt is considering the offer, which Bolt's agent confirmed to ESPN was extended on Sunday.
"I understand from Central Coast Mariners that they have [made] an offer to Usain Bolt's management, which he is considering," O'Rourke told SEN radio on Monday. "That offer is much, much less than [the Bolt camp] were originally requesting.
"And that's really reflected that if Usain wants to join the club and become a footballer, he should follow a journey pretty similar to any trialist, not withstanding for a minute the amount of marketing that somebody like Usain Bolt, the fastest man in the world, can bring to the Central Coast and the broader A-League."
According to the Sydney Morning Herald, Bolt's camp had asked for a deal around $3 million, but the Mariners' offer was in the vicinity of $150,000.
The eight-time Olympic gold medallist has been on trial at Central Coast for the past two months.
O'Rourke reiterated that Football Federation Australia wouldn't dip into its marquee fund for any Bolt deal.
"There's no funding from the marquee fund, as we said from day one," he said.
" ... The marquee fund has secured people like Keisuke Honda and Sam Kerr with football pedigree, and Usain Bolt has yet to become a professional footballer anywhere in the world."
But O'Rourke said marketing components had been discussed with Bolt's potential contract.
"There were some marketing conversations about contributions towards attendances at games, appearance fees, if you like," he said.
"But as for funding him as a footballer, then the FFA has been consistent in that they won't fund him. That won't change."
The Mariners on Monday remained tight-lipped, refusing to confirm the club had made an offer to the 32-year-old Jamaican.
A Mariners spokesman would only say Bolt's indefinite training period at the club remained in place and negotiations were ongoing.
Bolt didn't travel to Brisbane on Sunday, when the Mariners drew 1-1 with the Roar in their A-League season opener.
Reports of the contract offer to Bolt emerged midway through the game, but Mariners coach Mike Mulvey said postgame he was unaware of the development.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Chapecoense won 1-0 at Bahia on Sunday to set a club record of nine games unbeaten in Campeonato Brasileiro and maintain their hopes of qualifying for the Copa Libertadores.
The Brazilian club, who had to rebuild their squad following a tragic plane accident that killed most of the team almost a year ago, sealed all three points thanks to Wellington Paulista's first-half goal.
"We have evolved," Chapecoense coach Gilson Kleina told his club's website.
"We have taken points in the past nine games, clinched our fifth win [in that run] and that has helped the team gain confidence and achieve our goal which was to stay in Serie A. We are happy for that."
Earlier this month, Chapecoense retained their place in Brazil's top division with three games to spare and the players celebrated what has been a very challenging season.
Kleina praised his players and said it has been an all-round group effort.
"We still have one game to go," he said. "I emphasise that the atmosphere of Chapecoense is very positive. When the players buy the idea, the work is well done and the board is active, things gel and start to go well."
Chapecoense are ninth in the Campeonato Brasileiro standings heading into their final league game of the season at home to Coritiba on Sunday.
The top six teams from Brazil's top flight qualify for the 2018 Copa Libertadores and Flamengo are currently sixth, with Chapecoense just two points adrift heading into the final round.
However, three further spots could still open up for Brazilian teams to qualify for next year's Copa Libertadores.
For that to happen Cruzeiro, Gremio and Flamengo must all end the season in the top six positions, Gremio must win the 2017 Copa Libertadores and Flamengo must qualify through the Copa Sudamericana tournament.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Chelsea have completed the signing of left-back Emerson Palmieri from Roma for a reported £20 million.
Emerson, 23, has signed a four-and-a-half-year contract at Stamford Bridge and becomes Chelsea's second signing of the January window, following the £15m acquisition of Ross Barkley from Everton earlier this month.
Chelsea had been in negotiations with Roma over a potential €50m (£44m) combined deal for Emerson and striker Edin Dzeko, but after talks were reportedly held with the Bosnian's agent Irfan Redzepagic in London on Monday, Antonio Conte confirmed that there would be no deal for the forward.
In an article announcing the deal on the club's official website, Emerson, who will wear the No. 33 shirt, said: "I came here because it's a great team with a great history. Today I am realising one of my dreams to pull on the shirt of such a great club.
"English football is something I have been watching since I was 15 years old. It is a really beautiful game over here but it is going to be even more beautiful to play it."
Chelsea director Marina Granovskaia added: "We are delighted to welcome Emerson to the club. He is a young and talented player who strengthens the squad and will provide excellent competition for places as we pursue success in three different competitions."
Emerson's arrival provides squad cover at left wing-back for Marcos Alonso, allowing Kenedy to join Newcastle on loan for the rest of the season in search of regular Premier League minutes. It also ends Chelsea's immediate interest in Juventus wing-back Alex Sandro, a priority target in the summer.
Capped at under-17 level by Brazil but declared for Italy at senior level, Emerson joined Roma on loan from Santos in August 2015 and was signed on a permanent basis for €2m around 18 months later.
He has made just one Serie A appearance this season, having torn his anterior cruciate ligament on the final day of the last campaign.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Eden Hazard has urged his Chelsea teammates to continue their winning ways so that they may secure passage to the Champions League again next season.
Chelsea won 3-0 against West Bromwich Albion on Monday after consecutive Premier League defeats and Hazard, who scored two goals in the victory, said finishing in the top four of the league is paramount.
"We need to be in the top four for the Champions League next season and it would be good if we can take the FA Cup," Hazard told the club's website. "We are also in the Champions League. It's not easy to win the Champions League but we will go for everything."
The Premier League champions last season, Chelsea will host Hull City on Friday in the fifth round of the FA Cup and then will welcome Barcelona to Stamford Bridge for the first leg of their Champions League round-of-16 tie on Feb. 20.
Those competitions appear to be their only path to a trophy this season as Chelsea are fourth in the Premier League table -- 19 points behind runaway leaders Manchester City and one point behind Liverpool in third.
"We are all together," Hazard said. "We have to work and win games. When you play for Chelsea, you have to put this in your mind and give everything on the pitch.
"We have a good team. We have good players. We have three months to play until the end of the season and we have to give everything to reach our targets. When you play for Chelsea, the target has to be to win trophies."
The victory against West Brom -- who Chelsea defeated last season to secure the Premier League title -- marked the return of Alvaro Morata from a back injury and the first start by Olivier Giroud, who moved from Arsenal at the transfer deadline.
Hazard, 27, stressed that team unity will help Chelsea reach their goals.
"[Defeating West Brom] was a good response to the two losses in the last two weeks," Hazard said. "We have great players and we need to finish in the top four at the end of the season. That's our target. We have 11 games to play between now and then and we have to give everything to achieve that.
"Sometimes you win games, sometimes you lose. Last year we were champions, and the most important thing is to be together, work together, talk together and that's what we have done. [Against West Brom], we showed great character defensively and offensively which was good."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Cesc Fabregas has warned Chelsea to beware his old friend Andres Iniesta's timeless "intelligence'' ahead of Tuesday's Champions League clash with Barcelona.
Fabregas insisted he cannot call Iniesta his idol as just three years separate the two Spain midfielders, who progressed together through Barcelona's academy.
Instead Fabregas admitted admiring Barca greats Pep Guardiola and Luis Figo from afar as a youngster dreaming of making his way up the Camp Nou ladder.
Despite his enduring friendship with Iniesta, Fabregas insisted he will harbour no split loyalties when facing his home town club at Stamford Bridge in the round-of-16 first-leg encounter.
"He's still good; for this type of player age doesn't really matter,'' said Fabregas, of the 123-cap, 33-year-old Iniesta. "Once you have a talent, once you have the class that he and so many other 'big' players have, they can play until their late 30s.
"Physically, it's important, obviously because the game nowadays depends a lot on that. But when you have the quality, when you have the intelligence, it can sometimes compensate."
Asked if Iniesta was his idol growing up, the 30-year-old Fabregas replied: "You're making him very old! He's only three years older than me.
"We played with the Spain under-21s together. We've played together from when I was 18 years old.
"I never saw him as an 'idol' because we always played together. I saw him as a teammate. A person obviously that I admire, but in a different way from an idol I looked up to when I was young.
"I used to look up to Guardiola, because he was playing in my position; I used to love Luis Figo when he was at Barcelona. These two were probably the ones I looked up to most when I was little.
"But this generation of Spanish players, and not only Spanish players, in Barcelona has been fantastic.''
Fabregas broke a bone in his leg scoring an equalising penalty when Arsenal drew 2-2 with Barcelona in the Champions League in March 2010.
The accomplished midfielder insisted he has long since made peace with taking on his boyhood club and the side he has always supported.
Asked if he will be emotional on Tuesday, he replied: "It depends how you see it. Of course it's my home town, it's the club I supported for all my life.
"So in that way, yes. But once you step into the pitch, that just goes away. I did it with Arsenal.
"It's not something I try, it just happens naturally. You want to do well for your club and that's it.''
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Gianfranco Zola has said he is in the dark about speculation that he could return to Chelsea as assistant to Maurizio Sarri next season.
With uncertainty continuing to surround Antonio Conte's future at Stamford Bridge, Napoli coach Sarri has emerged as a potential contender for the Blues job.
But ex-Chelsea player Zola, who resigned as Birmingham manager after an unsuccessful spell last season, told La Gazzetta dello Sport he did not know anything about the reports.
"One week there is and one week there isn't something linking me with Chelsea," he said.
"But I know nothing about this hypothesis. Besides, after Birmingham I've taken a year out."
Sarri has led Napoli to the top of Serie A, and Zola said he admired the style of football they play.
"Napoli play like clockwork," he said. "They have tactics and moves which you can do little to defend against.
"The way they play the ball around reminds me of Maradona and Careca and the Napoli of my playing days.
"I think this is the year for them to win the Scudetto. Napoli can win it this season, and they would deserve it."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Antonio Conte admitted that Willian has earned a place at the heart of his plans against Barcelona after the Brazilian continued his prolific scoring run in Chelsea's 2-1 win over Crystal Palace.
Willian broke the deadlock on 25 minutes at Stamford Bridge, firing a low shot beyond Wayne Hennessey to net his fifth goal in his last five Chelsea appearances, the best form of his Blues career.
Martin Kelly's own goal doubled Chelsea's advantage before half-time and while former Blues youngster Patrick van Aanholt's late strike led to an anxious finale, Conte's men held on to keep pressure on Liverpool and Tottenham in the race for a top-four finish in the Premier League.
After the match, Conte confirmed that he will continue to reward Willian with a place in his starting XI, and praised the "maturity" that the 29-year-old is showing to impact games at both ends of the pitch.
"You can see that if a player stays in great form I'm the first to pick him in the starting XI," Conte said. "Willian is playing in a fantastic way, but I want to underline, not only with the ball, also without the ball. He's working very hard and he's helping the team without the ball.
"He's showing great maturity at this point of his career. In my heart I hope to see him at this level, to continue this performance. He's playing very well with the ball, without the ball. It's important to have balance within the game because when we lose our balance it's very difficult."
On the subject of Chelsea's victory, Conte added: "This win was very important. If we want to fight for a place in the Champions League, now it will be very important not to drop points.
"We played really well, especially in the first half. For a lot of the game we dominated, we created many, many chances, a lot of chances to score. It's a pity at the end we conceded the goal and then we played three minutes a bit nervous because after you dominate the game you hope to feel the game more relaxed. At the same time, I think the players managed the last few minutes in the best way."
Conte's focus now turns fully to Wednesday, when Chelsea take on Barcelona in the second leg of a finely-poised Champions League round-of-16 tie at Camp Nou, and he warned that his players will need to show other qualities in order to succeed.
"We have to show great resilience," Conte continued. "The game will be totally different. We are playing against one of the best teams in the world. We have to try to have the same focus, the same attention as the first leg against Barcelona.
"We played a really great game. It was almost the perfect game. It won't be easy. At the same time, we have to try the right solution to play this game. The best way sometimes is to speak with the players and to try to find together the right plan to face this game."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Chelsea manager Antonio Conte has said he should be judged on the development of his players and team after the Champions League defeat to Barcelona.
Lionel Messi scored twice at the Camp Nou as Barcelona won 3-0 to go through 4-1 on aggregate, but Chelsea had chances to make the tie closer.
And speaking to Mediaset, Conte said he believed they were making progress despite recent poor form that has seen them win only once in their last five games in all competitions.
"Luck appears to have turned its back on us this season, even though I don't like to pin everything on misfortune," he said. "But I do think tonight's result was unfair. They were good and clinical, but Barcelona have players who are used to these games.
"We are still a young team with a long way to go and we need to gain experience to be competitive all the way in the Champions League. [could winning a trophy be the only way to continue as Chelsea coach?]
"It's not about winning or not. I think that a coach's work should be judged on the development of his players and what you see in terms of the value of the squad, not trophies. Chelsea can do better, but the team is growing."
Meanwhile, Chelsea's former Barcelona attacker Pedro said the team had to move on from the defeat and focus on finishing in the top four in order to qualify for next season's Champions League.
Pedro, who came on in the second half, said they had been unable to recover from Messi's third-minute opener.
"It's a pity to have conceded that early goal because we came here with a game plan and that changed it," the Spain international told Onda Cero radio.
"The team nevertheless worked hard and it tried to fight with what we had. We created chances and could have scored, but Barcelona were superior.
"We now have to focus on the domestic games we have left in order to qualify for the Champions League."
And Pedro hailed Messi, whose second goal of the game was his 100th in the Champions League.
"Messi is the best player in the world and when he plays at such a high level it's just very complicated to beat them," he said.
"It's not just the goals and the assists he provides but the other work he does on the pitch. Messi ran a lot, he pressed, he made the difference as he always does."
Gracias a todos en el Camp Nou por un recibimiento inolvidable y muy emotivo. Siempre en el corazón / Thanks to everyone at Camp Nou for such an unforgettable and emotional welcome, Always in my heart pic.twitter.com/ytDoucOO2z

He said he hoped Barcelona would go on to win the Champions League and said he was grateful to their fans for the warm reception he had been given.
The 30-year-old tweeted "Thanks to everyone at the Camp Nou for such an unforgettable and emotional welcome, always in my heart."
Pedro won 20 major trophies at the Camp Nou, scoring 99 goals in 321 appearances before leaving in 2015.
"It has been such a special day for me," he said. "I had great memories from my time here, and I feel very loved."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Antonio Rudiger has said he was "probably" dropped from the Chelsea squad at Southampton as punishment for appearing to criticise coach Antonio Conte's tactics.
Germany international Rudiger was replaced by Andreas Christensen in the starting XI and not on the bench despite being fully fit, with Conte saying it was a "tactical decision."
Last week Rudiger told Sky Sports he did not "understand why after 1-0 we always drop and let the opponent get more ball possession" after Chelsea were held 1-1 draw by West Ham at Stamford Bridge.
And while Rudiger told ZDF he had not intended his comment to be a direct criticism of Conte. he admitted it was the likeliest explanation for his demotion from the team.
Asked whether he thought he had been left out because of his comments, Rudiger said: "Probably. But I didn't mean it that way.
"It was a fact, it wasn't about the tactics. I did not attack anyone personally, I meant us as a team."
Rudiger said he was "a bit" surprised to have been omitted and added: "I think that I played quite a lot of games in recent weeks and months. This was a little break."
On the nature of his relationship with Conte, he said: "It's just normal from my side. He's my coach. I must respect him. And he's a very, very good coach."
Chelsea fought back from two goals down to beat Southampton 3-2, but it is likely to be too late to secure a top-four finish in the Premier League.
The FA Cup appears the only chance for Chelsea to salvage a disappointing season, with Southampton their semifinal opponents on Sunday, and Rudiger said the players owed their fans success.
"Not winning it would not be worthy of Chelsea," he said. "It's a very, very big club in England and the fans always expect you to win something.
"I think it would be a good reconciliation [with the supporters] with the FA Cup."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Antonio Conte admitted that he is in the dark about Chelsea's postseason plans amid ongoing speculation that he will leave the club after the FA Cup final against Manchester United.
Chelsea are expected to part with Conte this summer, after months of public and private tensions with senior figures over the club's transfer policy as well as a sharp decline in results since the turn of the year.
Conte has always publicly maintained that he intends to see out the final year of his current contract at Stamford Bridge, which expires in June 2019, even while declining to answer questions that require him to look beyond Chelsea's final two matches of this campaign.
When asked on Friday how the days after the FA Cup final are likely to pan out, Conte replied: "No, but for sure, probably, I will go to Milan for the [testimonial] game for [Andrea] Pirlo on [May] 21st. Then we don't know, at the end of the season, if we have friendly games [before the World Cup].
"I don't know anything about our end of season. For sure, in the next week, the situation will be more clear for this."
Chelsea must beat Newcastle at St James' Park and hope that Brighton defeat Liverpool at Anfield as the Premier League draws to a close on Sunday in order to avoid missing out on Champions League qualification for the second time in three years.
It is a far cry from Conte's debut season at Chelsea, in which he exceeded expectations by bringing the Premier League trophy back to Stamford Bridge, but the Italian is adamant that both experiences have improved him as a manager.
"You always learn," he continued. "In your job, you every day learn, every season you are better than the last season if you want to keep improving yourself. In any job, after one season, you've learned a lot.
"If you want to stay the same level as the previous year, you can stay in a comfort zone. But I'm not that type of person. I don't like comfort zones.
"Every season you have to face different situations. You must be very good to face these situations. Every season is different. You don't have the same season twice. In every season you have the possibility to have many experiences and then to learn more from these experiences, and improve."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Gary Cahill insisted that winning the FA Cup has left Chelsea in a "very healthy" place despite their inconsistency this season.
Eden Hazard's first-half penalty was enough for Chelsea to edge out Manchester United 1-0 and claim the trophy for the eighth time in their history, in what is likely to prove manager Antonio Conte's final match in charge.
Conte is expected to leave Stamford Bridge this summer after months of tension with the Chelsea hierarchy over the club's transfer policy, coupled with a spectacular decline in results since the turn of the year that condemned the club to a fifth-place finish in the Premier League.
Cahill admitted that missing out on Champions League football for the second time in three seasons is a blow, but pointed to Chelsea's trophy record over that period as evidence the club are still heading in the right direction.
"I feel we've done it again," Cahill said. "Of course it's not the Premier League -- that wasn't to be, Manchester City have been [a] different class this year -- and obviously we'd like to be in the Champions League positions, but surely you're judging clubs by what they win over periods of years.
"Judging by [our results] week in week out our form can be up and down, but over a long period of time, you get a proper average of what's going on. I think this football club is very healthy.
"I felt the pressure before the game. We really had to win to save the season -- and when I say that, I don't mean save it in terms of all of a sudden it's a massive success, but at the same time it's an FA Cup and we've won a trophy this year, which is very difficult to do."
The Wembley triumph will not spare Chelsea a summer of uncertainty, with the question of Conte's future set to dominate the coming days. Also, the beginning of a crucial summer in the transfer market is poised to play out against the backdrop of the World Cup in Russia.
"Certainly, we feel the sense of uncertainty," Cahill admitted. "That's obvious to everyone in the last few months. As players we have no impact on that situation [with Conte]. If I was a betting man, I'm sure the club and the manager will have spoken. Let's see.
"I'm sure the manager will make the best decision for himself and his family, and the club will make what they feel is the best decision. It's totally out of our hands. All I can say is it's been a great finish. If the manager stays on then he stays on, if he doesn't then he's gone away with an FA Cup."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
With Antonio Conte on his way out at Chelsea, ESPN FC's Gab Marcotti reflects on the Italian's tenure and what led to his undoing. (4:18)
Chelsea announced on Friday that they have sacked coach Antonio Conte, paving the way for Maurizio Sarri to take over.
Sources told ESPN FC on Thursday that Conte, who had refused to walk away from Chelsea unless the final year of his contract was paid in full, had been sacked. He had been waiting since winning the FA Cup in May to resolve his future at Stamford Bridge, but difficulty in securing Sarri delayed the process.
Chelsea are expected to announce Sarri's appointment on an initial two-year contract imminently -- together with the signing of Italy international midfielder Jorginho for a combined fee of €65 million (£57.5m) -- after convincing Napoli chairman Aurelio De Laurentiis to release the 59-year-old from his contract.
A timeline of tension as manager finally departs
Zola: Chelsea must give Sarri 'freedom' to manage
In May, Napoli appointed Carlo Ancelotti to replace Sarri amid speculation that the latter could take the Chelsea job.
Eden Hazard and Thibaut Courtois have both publicly said they were seeking clarity on Chelsea's summer plans before deciding whether to sign new long-term contracts, with the club facing a season without Champions League football after finishing fifth in the Premier League.
Conte led Chelsea to the Premier League title in his first season in England in 2016-17 and followed up that achievement with the FA Cup triumph this year, but his relationship with the board became damaged beyond repair, highlighted by his repeated public and private complaints about transfer policy.
He also clashed with senior players such as Diego Costa and David Luiz while others had begun to grow weary of his methods. In the wake of Chelsea's FA Cup win, Willian obscured Conte in a team celebration photograph posted on Instagram.
Chelsea hoped that another club might attempt to buy Conte out of the final year of his Stamford Bridge contract as he was unwilling to resign, but Paris Saint-Germain's appointment of Thomas Tuchel and Real Madrid's choice of Julen Lopetegui eliminated the possibility.
Before joining Chelsea, Conte had only coached in his native Italy, leading Juventus to three consecutive Serie A titles from 2012-14 before taking over the national team at Euro 2016.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
With Antonio Conte on his way out at Chelsea, ESPN FC's Gab Marcotti reflects on the Italian's tenure and what led to his undoing. (4:18)
Chelsea announced on Friday that they have sacked coach Antonio Conte, paving the way for Maurizio Sarri to take over.
Sources told ESPN FC on Thursday that Conte, who had refused to walk away from Chelsea unless the final year of his contract was paid in full, had been sacked. He had been waiting since winning the FA Cup in May to resolve his future at Stamford Bridge, but difficulty in securing Sarri delayed the process.
Chelsea are expected to announce Sarri's appointment on an initial two-year contract imminently -- together with the signing of Italy international midfielder Jorginho for a combined fee of €65 million (£57.5m) -- after convincing Napoli chairman Aurelio De Laurentiis to release the 59-year-old from his contract.
A timeline of tension as manager finally departs
Zola: Chelsea must give Sarri 'freedom' to manage
In May, Napoli appointed Carlo Ancelotti to replace Sarri amid speculation that the latter could take the Chelsea job.
Eden Hazard and Thibaut Courtois have both publicly said they were seeking clarity on Chelsea's summer plans before deciding whether to sign new long-term contracts, with the club facing a season without Champions League football after finishing fifth in the Premier League.
Conte led Chelsea to the Premier League title in his first season in England in 2016-17 and followed up that achievement with the FA Cup triumph this year, but his relationship with the board became damaged beyond repair, highlighted by his repeated public and private complaints about transfer policy.
He also clashed with senior players such as Diego Costa and David Luiz while others had begun to grow weary of his methods. In the wake of Chelsea's FA Cup win, Willian obscured Conte in a team celebration photograph posted on Instagram.
Chelsea hoped that another club might attempt to buy Conte out of the final year of his Stamford Bridge contract as he was unwilling to resign, but Paris Saint-Germain's appointment of Thomas Tuchel and Real Madrid's choice of Julen Lopetegui eliminated the possibility.
Before joining Chelsea, Conte had only coached in his native Italy, leading Juventus to three consecutive Serie A titles from 2012-14 before taking over the national team at Euro 2016.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Maurizio Sarri warned that it may take "a couple of months" to implement his style of football at Chelsea, adding that he is expecting his team to encounter problems in the first half of the season.
Chelsea begin the new Premier League campaign away to Huddersfield Town on Saturday, less than a month after Sarri was officially appointed on a three-year contract to succeed the sacked Antonio Conte.
Sarri has only been able to work with the full Chelsea first-team squad this week, as key players Eden Hazard and N'Golo Kante were among those granted three weeks off to recover from their World Cup exertions.
Two of Chelsea's summer signings -- club-record purchase Kepa Arrizabalaga from Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid loanee Mateo Kovacic -- only arrived at Cobham on Wednesday, and Sarri admitted that he will need more time to get his new players up to speed with his ideas.
"For sure in this moment, we are not at the top of our potential," he said. "We did a preseason... what can I say... unusual, maybe. So now we are not at the top. I hope to be at the top of the potential of the squad in one or two months, but I don't know.
"I hope that the second part of the season, for us, will be very good with a lot of points. I expect in the first part of the season some problems."
Asked what problems he expects to face, Sarri replied: "On the results. Maybe the performances in the first part of the season will not be in line with the potential of the squad. Maybe, in the first part.
"I think you have to wait [to see 'Sarri-ball'] for a couple of months. You have to wait."
Goalscoring was a persistent issue for Chelsea under Conte last season and it has proven so again this summer, with Alvaro Morata failing to find the net in any of the Blues' friendlies as he battles to rediscover his confidence.
The thrilling football played by his Napoli team has raised hopes that Sarri alone can increase Chelsea's goal threat with stylistic changes, but he pointed out that his new players must adapt to making faster decisions on the pitch if that is to be the case.
"We have to play at another speed," he insisted. "The offensive phase may be problem at this speed. If we are able to play at another speed, maybe scoring will not be a problem for us. But at this moment, at this current speed, it may be a problem.
"The players in this moment need to think [about] what to do too much, and so the ball is not moved at the right speed, material and mental, at this moment. They have to think too much."
Asked if he is confident that he can replicate the football that Napoli played at Chelsea, Sarri replied: "I don't know. It depends on the characteristics of the Premier League and of my players. I have to adapt myself [to] the characteristics of the players, and not vice versa."
Sarri had been in his new job just four days when Chelsea travelled to Western Australia for a friendly against Perth Glory, before honouring their International Champions Cup commitments with matches against Inter, Arsenal and Lyon as well as facing Manchester City in the Community Shield in a heavily compressed preseason.
Sources have told ESPN FC that Chelsea will liaise heavily with Sarri before finalising their plans for next summer. Asked how much he would change preseason, Sarri said: "Completely, I think. If I can... completely. I don't know. I arrived in the middle of July, so the problem was there. I have to accept it completely, but I think, for the future, it will be better to change it.
"But I think that my perfect programme of preseason is not completely in line with the programme of the club. So we have to arrive at a compromise."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Eden Hazard can win the Ballon d'Or without leaving Chelsea to join Real Madrid, according to Maurizio Sarri.
Hazard reiterated at the start of the international break that joining Madrid remains his "dream" and he wants to "make it happen," but added that he is open to discussing a new long-term contract at Stamford Bridge.
Chelsea are desperate to keep Hazard, who enters the final year of his current deal this summer, and sources have told ESPN FC that they are prepared to make him the highest-paid player in the club's history as part of any extension.
"He's a fantastic player," Sarri said. "It will be important for us if he remains with us. Very, very important."
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

It was put to Hazard on Belgium duty that every Ballon d'Or winner since 2008 has played in Spain, and he jokingly replied that he wants to join Madrid to put himself in position to be regarded as the world's best player.
But speaking in a news conference ahead of Chelsea's clash with Manchester United at Stamford Bridge on Saturday, Sarri insisted that Hazard can achieve all of his personal ambitions without going anywhere.
"But I think also that he can win everything, possibly a Ballon d'Or, here, without playing in Spain," he said. "Because, for example, Chelsea will be able to win the Champions League. Belgium could win the European Championship. He could win everything, without playing in Spain."
In response to former Madrid president Ramon Calderon's claim that Chelsea are treating Hazard like a "slave" if they deny him his dream, Sarri laughed and said Hazard is happy at the club.
"I don't know what to say," he said. "I don't think he is. In the last three months, I have seen him always very happy. So I don't think so. It's nothing."
Sarri also dismissed reports that Chelsea have decided to replace Alvaro Morata in January after the Spaniard's underwhelming start to the new season; he has found the net three times in 11 appearances across all competitions this season and been benched in favour of Olivier Giroud.
"I think that they don't know me very well," Sarri said of the reports. "I am not able to think on the market at the moment. I am completely focused on my team, and improving my players. In the last month, I think Morata has played better. In the last three days I have seen him very well in training, very very well."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Mason Mount has told ESPN FC that he wants to play for Chelsea next season and hopes to emulate his current Derby manager Frank Lampard's achievements at the club.
Former Chelsea star Lampard was given a hero's welcome on his return to Stamford Bridge as Derby gave the Blues a scare in the Carabao Cup fourth round before losing 3-2.
On-loan midfielder Mount was one of the Championship side's most impressive performers, creating the second goal for Martyn Waghorn and going close to scoring.
Lampard said that he hoped it would prove to be the first of many Stamford Bridge appearances for Mount and fellow Chelsea loanee Fikayo Tomori, who recovered from an own goal in the fifth minute to produce an assured performance.
Asked whether he dreamed of emulating Lampard at Chelsea, Mount told ESPN FC: "Definitely. I want to be here next season. That's my goal. I want to come back and play for Chelsea, but at this moment I'm at Derby and I'm loving it, so that's where my focus is.
"He [Lampard] was a bit emotional in the dressing room after. You can see how much the Chelsea fans love him, the Derby fans love him. He just said he's so proud of all of us, to come here and play the way we played, and we can leave here with our heads held high."
Pick your eight-man team and compete in the Champions League, Premier League, La Liga, MLS or Liga MX, then go head-to-head in leagues against your friends or people around the world. Sign up for free!
Your team will be made up of eight players, at four different positions: two forwards, three midfielders, two defenders, and a goalkeeper. Find out more here.
ESPN+ is America's home for a host of professional soccer leagues from around the world, highlighted by Italy's Serie A, Major League Soccer, UEFA Nations League and English FA Cup. | 
ESPN+ schedule

Mount has been one of the stars of the Championship so far and played a key role in Derby's shock win over Manchester United in the previous round of the Carabao Cup at Old Trafford.
He received a first call-up to Gareth Southgate's senior England squad for recent UEFA Nations League matches against Croatia and Spain.
"This season so far has been unbelievable," he said. "To be called up to England, to play at Old Trafford and then to come and play at the Bridge, there's so much experience I can take away. I'm loving it at Derby at the moment.
"We're playing some unbelievable football and the team is so close, we're like a family. That makes it even better. This season has been a step up and it's been harder, but I've learned so much."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
English Premier League: Pedro (70') Chelsea 3-1 Crystal Palace (0:52)
LONDON -- Maurizio Sarri admitted that Alvaro Morata is "a little bit fragile from the mental point of view" and challenged him to remain focused on contributing to the team's play if he wants to continue his hot scoring streak for Chelsea.
Morata struck once in each half as Chelsea battled to a 3-1 win over Crystal Palace at Stamford Bridge to take his tally to five goals in his last six appearances in all competitions -- his most prolific run of form since scoring eight goals in the first eight games of his Blues career to start last season.
The Spaniard has often cut a disconsolate figure at Chelsea during his dry spells in front of goal, and Sarri believes the solution is for him to focus on his all-around performances rather than judging himself purely on finding the net.
"Alvaro improved the last month," Sarri said. "Improved for the confidence, improved for the personality, improved also from the technical point of view. Now he's able to play more with the team, I think.
"But I think, also, that Alvaro has a very great physical and technical potential, so I think he can improve more."
Asked how Morata can improve, Sarri replied: "He's a little bit fragile from the mental point of view. But he's very young. I think he can improve, improve very fast.
"For Alvaro, the goal has to be a consequence. He has to play for the team, with his [team]mates, without thinking about goals. Goals are usually consequence of teamwork."
Chelsea were troubled by Palace's organisation and speed on the counter-attack for long spells before Morata and Pedro Rodriguez scored to put the game out of reach, but their eighth win of the Premier League season keeps them unbeaten and brings them back to within two points of Manchester City.
Sarri remains sceptical that his team can challenge the defending champions over the full distance, but he is not setting limits on Chelsea's domestic ambition.
"I don't know [if we can keep up]," Sarri added. "At the beginning, we knew very well that there was a gap of 30 points from last season. So I think that, at the moment, we need only to think... to try to recover the large part of this gap.
"I am very proud to be the coach of this team. The [unbeaten] record is not one of the coach, but of the team. I was lucky. I have very good players, and my players, in the last two months, were able to win also without a great level of organisation from the tactical point of view.
"I hope to recover almost all the gap [to City], but I don't know. I think it's very difficult to cover 30 points in six months, but we are trying."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Chelsea head coach Maurizio Sarri admitted that he was pleased to escape with a 1-0 win over BATE Borisov after claiming his side had "all the conditions to play badly" on a freezing night in Belarus.
Olivier Giroud's first goal of the season early in the second half proved enough for the Blues to book their place in the Europa League round of 32 against BATE, who vastly improved on their showing in a 3-1 loss at Stamford Bridge last month and struck the frame of Kepa Arrizabalaga's goal three times.
In addition to the cold temparatures Chelsea had to contend with a less than flawless playing surface at Borisov Arena.  After the match Sarri said he was far more satisfied with three points than his team's performance.
Asked what aspect of the game pleased him most, Sarri replied: "The result. I think we didn't play very well, I didn't like the first half because we moved the ball only horizontally and slowly, so it was hard to be dangerous.
"It was better in the first 20 minutes of the second half but we didn't manage the last 15 minutes well. The best thing about this evening was the result.
"It wasn't easy to play a good game here, it was all the conditions to play badly, but I think we could have done better."
Giroud had gone 795 minutes without finding the net for Chelsea before nodding in Emerson's inviting delivery from the left flank in the 52nd minute, and speaking to BT Sport after the match he expressed his relief at breaking his duck.
"It's true that I was hoping to score soon, because I came back late from the World Cup and after I lacked a bit of efficiency and luck sometimes," he said.
"But you always need to keep working hard in training and keep believing, keep the faith. So that's what I did on a good cross from Emerson, and that's what we need to do more often."
Giroud was handed a start by Sarri as Alvaro Morata, scorer of five goals in his last six appearances in all competitions, was excused from the trip to Belarus.
"I'm pleased for him." Sarri said of Giroud. "He's a very important player for us, he's very useful for the team but I know very well that strikers want to score, and so for his confidence it's very important. But I don't want him to be worried about scoring because for us he's very important."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Peter Walton calls on his experience to describe how referees can combat racial abuse from fans after an incident involving Raheem Sterling. (1:30)
Chelsea head coach Maurizio Sarri condemned the alleged racist abuse suffered by Manchester City star Raheem Sterling at Stamford Bridge as "disgusting" and backed the club's firm stance.
Sterling reportedly confirmed to police that he was subjected to racist abuse during Saturday's game, and on Tuesday, Chelsea suspended four supporters from attending games "pending further investigations" into the incident.
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
ESPN and Marvel teamed up to turn our favorite soccer captains into galaxy-dominating superheroes.

Video footage is being reviewed by Metropolitan Police as part of their investigation, while Chelsea have pledged to ban and support prosecutions of any supporters found to have engaged in racist abuse.
In his first public comments since the Sterling incident, Sarri condemned it in the strongest possible terms.
"First of all I want to say that I condemn any form of discrimination, of course," Sarri said. "I think that I have to stop here because there is an investigation so I think it's better not to say something more. Of course my opinion is that I condemn every sort of discrimination."
Pressed further on the subject, he added: "It was disgusting. You know very well my opinion, the opinion of the club, but now we have to go on."
Colin Wing, the supporter identified as hurling the alleged abuse at Sterling as the England international retrieved the ball from the byline, accepts that he insulted and swore at the forward but denies that his comments were racial in nature.
In a post on his official Instagram account on Sunday, Sterling said he laughed at the abuse he suffered at Stamford Bridge because he expects "no better," and accused English newspapers of fuelling racial tensions with an unfair and negative portrayal of black footballers.
His comments have reignited the conversation about racism in English football, in the media and in wider society, and Chelsea midfielder Ruben Loftus-Cheek believes his England teammate was right to speak out on the issue.
"I haven't spoken to Raheem about it," he said. "I tried to leave him and deal with it mentally himself," Loftus-Cheek said. "He is a strong-minded person, I am sure he will be alright.
"I think he was right in what he said. It shouldn't be in the game or anywhere, so I think it was the right thing for him to speak out. I think if it happened to me then I would do the same thing.
"From Chelsea's point of view I know there is an investigation and they do take the hardest response if it is racial abuse and tackle with it in the right way.
"No I haven't [experienced racism on a football pitch]. Off the football pitch I have, years ago. Never on the pitch I haven't. It doesn't happen a lot in England, but it obviously does still happen.
"I am sure most people don't like this and It needs to be out the game as quick as possible. When incidents do come like this we have to take a hard response.
"It [racism] is something that players have talked about, especially me growing up as a black player and having black around me in the youth team, and when we have played abroad it does happen some times.
"We talk about it as players and how we should deal with it many times. It does go on and it needs to be out of the game as quick as possible."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- A minority of Chelsea supporters risk the possibility of driving Roman Abramovich away from the club if they refuse to stop singing antisemitic songs, the chair of the club's supporters' trust has warned.
UEFA are in the process of deciding whether to charge Chelsea for the chanting of some of their 1,273 away fans during Thursday's 2-2 draw with Vidi in the Europa League. After the match a club spokesman said those who had used a derogatory word in reference to rivals Tottenham had "shamed the club."
ESPN FC's experts ranked the best men's players and managers in world football. Check it out.
On Feb. 8, a fire at an uninspected youth dorm at Flamengo killed 10 young players. How?


The extent of Chelsea's anger springs from a steady stream of incidents in recent years relating to supporters singing antisemitic songs, often in reference to Spurs, coupled with the fact that Abramovich -- who acquired Israeli citizenship earlier this year -- has adopted the fight against antisemitism as a personal cause.
David Chidgey, chair of the Chelsea Supporters' Trust, believes the fact that Abramovich has made his feelings about the issue so clear should be reason enough for fans to stop using the word.
"I think there's still a huge disconnect from a lot of the supporters when it comes to the idea that saying [the word] in the odd song is racist," he told ESPN FC. "Clearly it is. That's the reality, and they need to understand that.
"It's not about what we think about the use of it, it's how it's received, and it's clearly offensive to a lot of people -- not least our owner, who is Jewish!
"The efforts that Roman has gone to try and combat this and the number of times that he's revealed that he's not comfortable with it and doesn't like it, you would have thought we could get it into our heads that it's not acceptable -- even if it's been sung for years, even if Tottenham do it.
"Our owner doesn't like it, so why don't we stop doing it?
"What worries me is if we can't deal with this, can't move on from it, then where do we go? If UEFA take action we could get bans, we could have empty grounds. Roman could even leave the club. Where does this end?"
A UEFA investigation for the chanting would be particularly embarrassing for Chelsea, who have gone further than any other club in their attempts to eradicate antisemitism from football since launching a targeted campaign at the urging of Abramovich in January.
Holocaust survivor Harry Spiro was invited to Cobham to address the Chelsea first-team squad in January, while the club sent a delegation to attend the annual March of the Living at Auschwitz in April.
This was followed in June by an official visit, consisting of 150 supporters and club officials, to the Nazi concentration camp.
Last month Chelsea announced that they will play MLS club New England Revolution in a postseason friendly, branded "Game for Change," as part of their campaign against antisemitism.
Abramovich and Revolution owner Robert Kraft, who is also Jewish, have pledged to donate $1 million (£778,565) each to the fight against antisemitism, with all money from ticket sales also going to the cause.
Sources told ESPN FC in October that Chelsea are committed to engaging racist supporters in educational courses that could include funded trips to Auschwitz as part of their wider drive to stamp out antisemitism.
Chidgey believes education is part of the solution, but insists that supporters must also assume responsibility for ensuring that antisemitic chanting becomes a thing of the past at Chelsea -- though he admits the process will not be quick.
"We can self-police -- you see it at the stadium normally," he added. "If someone starts singing something horrible, everybody else will sing something more acceptable and drown it out.
"Back in the day, I would have sung some of these songs. But you learn, you realise, you become aware of the fact that it's not acceptable and you change your behaviour, as I did and many other supporters have done.
"But can you guarantee that you won't continue to get one or two people who sing it? I don't know.
"I think you have to take all the action you possibly can -- self-policing, banning, re-education -- to try and change that behaviour. But this has been going on for a long, long time, and it will take time for it to completely disappear."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Willian's sublime second-half curler gave Chelsea a 2-1 win over Newcastle, at Stamford Bridge. (1:29)
LONDON -- Maurizio Sarri reiterated that Chelsea must find a replacement for Cesc Fabregas in the January transfer window after admitting that Jorginho was "in trouble" during Saturday's 2-1 win over Newcastle.
Willian's first Premier League goal since October gave Chelsea a vital three points in the top-four race after Ciaran Clark's header cancelled out an early opener from Pedro Rodriguez in a lively first half, but frustration gripped Stamford Bridge as the home side laboured for long spells.
Jorginho's uncharacteristically error-prone performance made him the subject of particular ire. And after the match, Sarri attributed his marquee summer signing's disappointing display to a lack of midfield cover in the wake of Fabregas completing a January move to Monaco.
With help from former Tottenham and Liverpool director of football Damien Comolli, we show you a step-by-step guide to a transfer.
FIFA have banned Chelsea for a period of two transfer windows. But what did they do wrong and how will the punishment play out?

"Today Jorginho was in trouble and on the bench there wasn't a player for that position," Sarri said. "I need an option for Jorginho."
Asked when he expects a Fabregas replacement -- reportedly a straight choice between Zenit St Petersburg midfielder Leandro Paredes and Cagliari star Nicolo Barella -- to arrive, Sarri replied: "I have no idea.
"It's not too much [of a worry for me]. [If] the club is worried, I don't know. The club knows very well my opinion. I need the player there [in that position]. It depends on the club decision, I think. I cannot do anything more."
Willian's third Premier League goal of the season came at the end of a week that saw fresh speculation linking him with a move to Barcelona, though sources have told ESPN FC that Chelsea are reluctant to sell him in January amid concerns that it could damage Sarri's ability to deliver a top-four finish.
"You know very well that Willian for us is really a very important player, as I said [on Friday] in the press conference," Sarri added.
"In my opinion, Willian has to stay with us. He's really a very important player, like Pedro. [Hudson-Odoi] is becoming for us a really important player. With Eden [Hazard] as a striker, we need wingers. So we need Pedro. We need [Hudson-Odoi]. We need Willian of course. For us, he's fundamental."
The win moves Chelsea six points clear of fifth-placed Arsenal after the Gunners lost 1-0 to West Ham earlier on Saturday, but Sarri insisted that his team's performance against a struggling Newcastle side left him wanting more.
"I am really very happy with the result," Sarri said. "We started very well for 10 minutes. After the goal, I think we thought now it's easy, but it wasn't. We slept for 20, 25 minutes, so at the end of the first half, we were in trouble.
"We need to improve in the mental reaction. After our first goal, something happened. We stopped [playing] for 25 minutes. We need to improve. It was really very important to get three points. For now, it's enough."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
With Jorginho not starting against Malmo, the FC guys explain how Maurizio Sarri missed the perfect opportunity to play N'Golo Kante in his preferred position. (2:01)
Chelsea will face Dynamo Kiev in the Europa League round-of 16, with London rivals Arsenal drawn against French club Rennes.
Maurizio Sarri's side, who beat Swedish side Malmo 3-0 on Thursday to progress 5-1 on aggregate, face the 15-time Ukrainian champions in the first leg at Stamford Bridge on March 7.
The Gunners, who beat BATE Borisov in the last round, take on Rennes, 11th in Ligue 1, and are also at home in the first leg.
Europa league round of 16 draw:
Chelsea vs. Dynamo Kiev
Eintracht Frankfurt vs. Inter Milan
Dinamo Zagreb vs. Benfica
Napoli vs. Salzburg
Valencia vs. Krasnodar
Sevilla vs. Slavia Prague
Arsenal vs. Rennes
Zenit vs. Villarreal
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Manchester City retained the Carabao Cup after Raheem Sterling capped off a dramatic penalty shootout with the winning strike. (2:41)
LONDON -- Kepa Arrizabalaga apologised for refusing to obey Maurizio Sarri's order for him to be substituted for Willy Caballero during extra time of Chelsea's agonising penalty shootout defeat against Manchester City in the Carabao Cup final.
Sarri became enraged on the Wembley touchline when Kepa angrily waved away the attempts of his Chelsea teammates and referee John Moss to get him to leave the field, creating what many perceived to be a moment of public insubordination that undermined his head coach.
Kepa went on to save Leroy Sane's effort in the penalty shootout, but Jorginho and David Luiz missed from 12 yards for Chelsea to hand City victory after a goalless draw over 120 minutes.
After the match, Sarri insisted that it was nothing more than a "big misunderstanding," and Kepa was adamant that he never intended to disrespect his head coach.
"I have to say it was misunderstood," Kepa said. "In no moment was it my intention to disobey, or anything like that with the boss. Just that it was misunderstood, because I had been attended to by the medics twice, and he thought that I wasn't in condition to continue.
"It was two or three minutes of confusion until the medics got to the bench, and they explained everything well. This was nothing to do with the problems I had this week, with [my hamstring]. It wasn't that. And, well, it was misunderstood. Because he thought I couldn't continue, and -- fundamentally -- I was trying to say that physically I was fine.
"I know if you see it from outside, I don't know how it went out, it is not the best image. I have spoken with the boss. I think it was misunderstood. I understand that on television, on social media, they're talking about this, but I am here to explain it, to say that it wasn't my intention to go against the manager.
"We have spoken now, and I was only trying to say I'm fine. He thought I wasn't fine. It was in tense moments, with a lot happening ..."
The goalkeeper also explained his behaviour in a tweet, in English and Spanish.
pic.twitter.com/y1moLEZHCq
Kepa's refusal to come off overshadowed an impressive performance from Chelsea against City following their historic 6-0 humiliation against the same opponents at the Etihad Stadium earlier this month, and the Spaniard was keen to switch the focus of discussion to the more encouraging aspects of the game.
"I know the image it's given, but I never intended to refuse to go off," he added. "It was only to say I was fine [to continue].
"I don't think it has to be the major act of this final. I understand we played a good level against one of the best teams in the world. We were close to winning, obviously we're sad that we didn't, and I think the team needs to continue playing like this, because today we've shown we can compete against the best teams. Among the negatives, we have to take the positives."
Meanwhile, former Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho said Kepa left his manager and teammate Willy Caballero in a difficult situation.
"Luckily I have never experienced something like that," Mourinho said in his role as analyst for DAZN Espana.
"I believe the keeper wanted to show his personality, his confidence, and to show 'I am here, I want to go to penalties, I want to make saves and I am here and confident that I will do it' -- that I like."
"But what I did not like was how he left his manager, his assistant and everyone else in such a delicate situation, including his teammate who was ready to come on and in the end he [Caballero] has been left stuck in a mess that is not of his own making. It makes me a little sad because it is a complicated situation."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Chennaiyin FC have signed CK Vineeth and Halicharan Narzary from Kerala Blasters on loan till the end of the ongoing ISL season. As part of the same deal, young forward Baoringdao Bodo has joined Kerala on a permanent move.
"Vineeth and Halicharan bring plenty of quality and experience to our squad," head coach John Gregory said in a press release. "Our focus will be to salvage some pride in the ISL while putting up a good run in our debut AFC Cup campaign. The Super Cup also provides us with an opportunity to repay our fans' unconditional support this season with a trophy."
Vineeth returns to the city where he began his professional career with Chennai Customs and is looking for a "fresh start" as Chennaiyin - currently sitting in the last position - look to embark on their campaign in Asia.
"I am looking forward to the rest of the season with Chennaiyin FC," Vineeth said. "This campaign hasn't gone to plan so far but it will be a fresh start and I hope to contribute with the AFC Cup and Super Cup also on the horizon."
Vineeth first joined Kerala Blasters on loan from the then I-League club Bengaluru FC in 2015. This will be his first switch to a team in the Indian Super League (ISL) since his permanent move to Kerala Blasters during the 2017-18 season. Vineeth has had a season to forget, scoring just two goals in 10 appearances for Kerala.
Also read: CK Vineeth: The Kannur kid who dreamed big
Narzary, fresh from the Asian Cup, is also looking to add depth to Chennaiyin's AFC Cup campaign after a less than average season with Kerala.
Chennaiyin will play the winner of Colombo FC (Sri Lanka) and Transport United (Bhutan) on March 6 and March 13 in their AFC Cup campaign. The first leg will be away and this will be a playoff game to reach the main draw.
"Chennaiyin FC are a club with a lot of success in the ISL. I am good friends with a lot of the Indian players like Jeje Bhai, Germanpreet (Singh) and (Anirudh) Thapa. I can't wait to link up with the boys here and give my best with a lot of important games coming up, including the club's debut AFC Cup campaign," Narzary said.
Narzary, 24, has previously played for FC Goa and NorthEast United FC in the ISL.
Meanwhile, Chennaiyin's youngest ever first-team debutant, Bodo - who made two appearances in their 2017-18 title-winning campaign - makes the switch to Kerala after having spent two months on loan at Kozhikode based I-League outfit Gokulam Kerala FC, scoring one goal in two appearances.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Jorge Sampaoli is no longer the manager of Chile after reaching an agreement to terminate his contract on Tuesday.
The Argentine coach, who led Chile to the 2015 Copa America title, had been at odds with the nation's federation over compensation for several weeks, but the two sides were at odds at how he would buy out his contract.
Sampaoli reportedly would have had to pay the €6.3 million remaining on the deal, but multiple reports now say that figure dropped to between €600,000 to a little over €1m.
The 55-year-old will pay the federation through the next contract he receives and also forfeits any bonuses from winning the Copa America.
Last week, Sampaoli told ESPN Deportes that he was "being held hostage" by the contract.
The Chilean ANFP said in a statement that the settlement allows Chile to avoid a lengthy court battle and move forward on hiring a new coach.
"Now we will turn to our priority: to do everything possible to qualify for the 2018 World Chile in Russia," ANFP president Arturo Salah said.
Earlier on Tuesday, Manchester City's Chilean manager Manuel Pellegrini said he was not interested in replacing Sampaoli.
"I hope to remain with competitive teams in Europe, I am not thinking about returning to Chile at least for the next three or four years," Pellegrini told Radio Cooperativa.
"There is no chance I would coach over the next couple of years. Arturo has my full support for all that is needed. But being in charge of the national team is not something I would like to do at this time."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Audax Italiano forward Sebastian Pol has publicly apologised after kicking a spectator during a Chilean top-flight game at the weekend, resulting in the 28-year-old being detained overnight by police.
TV images showed Pol climbing on to a fence at the San Carlos de Apoquindo stadium and kicking a spectator in the chest after his team's 4-1 defeat at Universidad Catolica on Saturday.
The fan, Cristobal Astorquiza, told local media he did not suffer any serious injuries as he covered his chest with his arms prior to impact.
El caótico final entre Universidad Católica y Audax Italiano que terminó con Sebastián Pol agrediendo a un hincha cruzado. pic.twitter.com/1rgm4C3fGo
- Canal del Fútbol (@CDF_cl) October 30, 2016
Argentine striker Pol was then arrested by police in the changing room for charges relating to violence in stadiums.
He was released on Sunday and El Grafico quoted him as saying: "The truth is that I'm full of regret. My intention was never to harm anyone. I apologise. It will never happen again.
"I understand that what I did was wrong. I didn't want to hit him, I just wanted to frighten him. I apologise to him profusely."
Asked about the reason for his reaction, Pol said: "He insulted me and spit on me. I have the support of my family and of my club, but I'm the one to blame."
According to El Grafico, Pol, who joined Audax in 2014 and has played for teams in Costa Rica, Romania and Bolivia in the past, has been provisionally banned from attending any sporting events for the next 20 days and could face up to a 10-match suspension from the Chilean football league.
Saturday's incident brought back memories of a similar episode that took place in the Premier League 21 years ago.
In a game at Crystal Palace, Manchester United player Eric Cantona jumped over advertising boards and launched a kick directed at Matthew Simmons, a local fan who had insulted him after the Frenchman had been sent off.
Cantona was sentenced to 14 days in prison by a magistrate after pleading guilty to common assault, but that was later overturned by a judge. He was given 120 hours' community service instead and also served an eight-month ban from football.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Marcello Lippi said the gap between his China team and the world's leading sides remained significant after they lost 4-0 to Colombia on Tuesday.
It was China's second defeat in a row after they were beaten 2-0 by Serbia last week, but the Italian World Cup-winning coach felt the games had been beneficial.
"From the performance we could see the gap is all round," he told reporters. "We still have a long way to go.
"If the opponent was an Asian team, we may have a gap but it would be small. We need to get to the bottom of where we are and have the right attitude towards that.
"We prefer to play strong teams. Games like this have more value in terms of improving ourselves. It doesn't mean much if we always play weaker sides."
He praised Colombia as "very good" and said facing them would "give the players an idea of the gap between them and the top teams."
Lippi was also impressed by the contribution of Shanghai SIPG winger Wu Lei, saying: "He was in very good shape. He has been quite outstanding recently in both the club team and the national team.
"The attacking quality is acceptable. In the last match we created three or four chances, and in this game Wu Lei had a one-on-one opportunity.
"However, when facing teams of this level, we need to fight with strong, integrated power because the opponent is much stronger and we need every one of us at our best."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Felix Magath has become the latest high-profile foreign coach to leave the Chinese Super League (CSL) after Shandong Luneng announced on Friday the veteran German would not be extending his stay with the club.
The announcement of Magath's departure comes a day after Andre Villas-Boas' association with Shanghai SIPG officially came to an end. Former China international Li Xiaopeng has been named as Magath's replacement.
"The contract between Shandong Luneng Taishan Football Club and Mr. Magath has expired and, after friendly discussions, the two sides have decided not to renew," Shandong said in a statement issued on social media.
Official: Felix Magath and Shandong Luneng part ways. Li Xiaopeng will be Luneng's head coach in the new season. pic.twitter.com/I3RwXaG7AO

"Since taking office in June 2016, Mr. Magath has further enhanced the team's will, the quality of training and the athletic performance through his hard work.
"Mr. Magath's professional attitude and dedication won the club's respect and made him a fan favourite.
"We sincerely thank him for his hard work and wish Mr. Magath the best for the future."
Magath took over from Brazilian coach Mano Menezes with the club in danger of being relegated, but the former Bayern Munich and Wolfsburg steered Shandong to safety.
He then oversaw a rebuilding process last year and eventually led Shandong to sixth place in the CSL standings. Only their faltering form late in the season saw them miss out on a place in next year's AFC Champions League.
Magath's departure follows Villas-Boas' move away from Shanghai SIPG and the departure of Luiz Felipe Scolari, who led Guangzhou Evergrande to the CSL title.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The ESPN FC crew feel Group H is the most unpredictable with Poland, Senegal, Colombia and Japan making up the group. (1:58)
Japan had a late strike from Yosuke Ideguchi to thank for earning a fortuitous 1-0 win over North Korea on Saturday to put Vahid Halilhodzic's side on top of the early standings at the East Asian Championships.
Ideguchi's deflected effort in the 94th minute in front of just over 20,000 fans at Ajinomoto Stadium secured all three points for Japan. They move to the top of the standings after South Korea and China played out a 2-2 draw earlier in the evening.
The North Koreans were unfortunate not to take something from the game, with Japan goalkeeper Kosuke Nakamura pulling off a fine save to deny Kim Yu-sung in the 69th minute. The Kashiwa Reysol custodian threw himself at full stretch to push the 4.25 SC striker's header around the post.
A minute later, Jorn Andersen's side were frustrated again. Pak Myong-Song's shot went over the bar, with the goal at his mercy as Japan's domestic-based line-up lacked a cutting edge throughout.
But, just as the game looked set to end in a scoreless draw, Ideguchi smashed his shot from outside the area. A deflection helped the ball past 2010 World Cup veteran Ri Myong-Guk in the North Korean goal.
"It was a good victory but we were lucky," Halilhodzic said. "Our opponent was well organised and defended well.
"There were many players who were playing their first game for Japan and we were not able to call up many players when we were making this team.
"The other side had a stronger squad so there are several positive factors for us. We never gave up, we never got frustrated. We were patient."
Yu Dabao, meanwhile, made a goal-scoring return to the China national team as Marcello Lippi's side score 14 minutes from time to pick up a 2-2 draw with South Korea in the tournament's opening game.
Wei Shihao had given the Chinese the lead after just nine minutes, scoring his first ever goal for the national team on his debut as Lippi's youthful team made a promising start.
China started with six players aged 22 or under and the South Koreans eventually exploited that inexperience through the physical presence of towering Ulsan Hyundai striker Kim Shin-Wook.
Kim pulled the Koreans level just three minutes after Wei's opener before his cushioned header set Lee Jae-Sung up to score a second for Shin Tae-Yong's side in the 19th minute.
Chinese goalkeeper Yan Junling impressed between the posts to keep the Koreans within striking distance with fine saves either side of hal-time break.
In the 76th minute, Yu claimed the equaliser when he powered through the Korean defence to head home Li Xuepeng's cross from the left.
"I have high expectations of Yu Dabao and he scored today," Lippi said. "He's had a bad year this year, he was injured and his playing time was short.
"However, he had made a contribution to the national team before and he's played a lot of games. He scored twice in a match against South Korea before so I knew what he could do.
"In the second half we changed the strategy and that worked well. We decided to have a more compact defence and we decided to be more focused on that. That worked well. Xiao Zhi is a tall player and his introduction worked positively and as a result we played better."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
