MELBOURNE, Australia --  Victoria Azarenka had the bulk of the crowd against her. The fireworks were fizzling out, and when she looked over the net she saw Li Na crashing to the court and almost knocking herself out.
Considering the cascading criticism she'd encountered after her previous win, Azarenka didn't need the focus of the Australian Open final to be on another medical timeout.
So after defending her title with a 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 victory over the sixth-seeded Li in one of the most unusual finals ever at Melbourne Park, Azarenka understandably dropped her racket and cried tears of relief late Saturday night.
She heaved as she sobbed into a towel beside the court, before regaining her composure to collect the trophy.
"It isn't easy, that's for sure, but I knew what I had to do," the 23-year-old Belarusian said. "I had to stay calm. I had to stay positive. I just had to deal with the things that came onto me."
There were a lot of those things squeezed into the 2-hour, 40-minute match. Li, who was playing her second Australian Open final in three years, twisted her ankle and tumbled to the court in the second and third sets.
The second time was on the point immediately after a 10-minute delay for the Australia Day fireworks -- a familiar fixture in downtown Melbourne on Jan. 26, but not usually coinciding with a final.
Li had been sitting in her chair during the break, while Azarenka jogged and swung her racket around before leaving the court to rub some liniment into her legs to keep warm.
The 30-year-old Chinese player had tumbled to the court after twisting her left ankle and had it taped after falling in the fifth game of the second set. Immediately after the fireworks ceased, and with smoke still in the air, she twisted the ankle again, fell and hit the back of her head on the hard court.
The 2011 French Open champion was treated immediately by a tournament doctor and assessed for a concussion in another medical timeout before resuming the match.
"I think I was a little bit worried when I was falling," Li said, in her humorous, self-deprecating fashion. "Because two seconds I couldn't really see anything. It was totally black.
"So when the physio come, she was like, 'Focus on my finger.' I was laughing. I was thinking, 'This is tennis court, not like hospital.' "
Li's injury was obvious and attracted even more support for her from the 15,000-strong crowd.
Azarenka had generated some bad PR by taking a medical timeout after wasting five match points on her own serve in her semifinal win over American teenager Sloane Stephens on Thursday. She came back after the break and finished off Stephens in the next game, later telling an on-court interviewer that she "almost did the choke of the year."
She was accused of gamesmanship and manipulating the rules to get time to regain her composure against Stephens, but defended herself by saying she actually was having difficulty breathing because of a rib injury that needed to be fixed.
That explanation didn't convince everybody. So when she walked onto Rod Laver Arena on Saturday, there were some people who booed, and others who heckled her or mimicked the distinctive hooting sound she makes when she hits the ball.
"Unfortunately, you have to go through some rough patches to achieve great things," she said. "That's what makes it so special for me. I went through that, and I'm still able to kiss that beautiful trophy."
She didn't hold a grudge.
"I was expecting way worse, to be honest. What can you do? You just have to go out there and try to play tennis in the end of the day," she said. "It's a tennis match, tennis battle, final of the Australian Open. I was there to play that.
"The things what happened in the past, I did the best thing I could to explain, and it was left behind me already."
The match contained plenty of nervy moments and tension, and 16 service breaks -- nine for Li. But it also produced plenty of winners and bravery on big points.
Azarenka will retain the No. 1 ranking she's mostly held since her first Grand Slam win in Melbourne last year.
Li moved into the top five and is heartened by a recent trend of Australian runner-ups winning the French Open. She accomplished that in 2011, as did Ana Ivanovic (2008) and Maria Sharapova (2012).
"I wish I can do the same this year, as well," Li said.
Later Saturday, Bob and Mike Bryan won their record 13th Grand Slam men's doubles title, defeating the Dutch team of Robin Haase and Igor Sijsling 6-3, 6-4.
Sunday's men's final features two-time defending champion Novak Djokovic and U.S. Open winner Andy Murray. Djokovic is seeking to become the first man in the Open era to win three titles in a row in Australia.
Azarenka was planning a night of partying to celebrate her second major title, with her friend Redfoo and the Party Rock crew, and was hopeful of scoring some tickets to the men's final.
She said she needed to let her hair down after a draining two weeks and hoped that by being more open and frank in recent times she was clearing up any misconceptions the public had of her.
"When I came first on the tour I kind of was lost a little bit," he said. "I didn't know how to open up my personality.  It's very difficult when you're alone. I was independent since I was, you know, 10 years old. It was a little bit scary and I wouldn't show my personality.
"So the (last) couple of years I learned how to open up to people and to share the moments. I wasn't really good before. I hope I got better. It's your judgment."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
In several, very fundamental ways, they are the same extraordinary person.
Thirty-two years ago, Serena Williams and Roger Federer were born within seven weeks of each other. They are, at the very least, the tennis players of their generation, ruthless competitors when matches mean the most. Appropriately, they both own 17 Grand Slam singles titles.
"It's an honor to be even with Roger," Williams said after winning last year's US Open. "It feels really good to be in the same league as him. He's just been so incredibly consistent, so we have had really different careers."
Indeed, their journeys to the summit couldn't be more different. Williams learned to play on the public courts of Compton, Calif., while Federer, who was born in Basel, Switzerland, followed the more conventional path of an elite junior. Williams' slashing style is predicated on unprecedented power. Federer's game is an astonishing combination of variety and finesse.
Here's another difference: While Federer won all of his major trophies in just over nine years, Williams' swath spans 14 years and will almost certainly continue. This will be the Swiss champion's 57th consecutive Grand Slam; since winning her first, Williams has missed 10 majors -- at least one in each of eight seasons.
And there's this: Federer, ranked No. 6 among ATP World Tour players, heads into next week's Australian Open with a new coach (childhood hero Stefan Edberg) and a larger racket head (a 98-square-inch Wilson) than he's ever employed at a Grand Slam event. Last year was the first time in 11 seasons he didn't reach at least one major final. Williams, meanwhile, is the WTA's No. 1-ranked player and is favored to win this and, quite likely, every Grand Slam of 2014.
Practicing with hitting partner Sascha Bajin under the eye of her formidable father, Richard, last month in Florida, Williams asked herself what has, in recent years, become a rhetorical question:
"Why am I, like, doing this so many years later?" she related a few weeks ago at the 2014 kickoff tournament in Brisbane, Australia.
The answer?
"I can't stop," said Williams. "I love being out there. I love competing. It gives me something to do. For me, it's just about motivating myself and trying to reach new goals."
Translation: Winning more Slams.
"Oh, that's going to happen," said 18-time Grand Slam singles champion Chrissie Evert from her home in Florida. "But the thing I wonder is if she can match the tennis and the enthusiasm that she had last year. It took a lot out of her. It was almost like playing three years. Every week, the focus was on her and the emotions of being excited about her place in history.
"It's not about Azarenka and Sharapova. Can Serena do it, day in and day out? It's happening to Roger Federer. It chips away, and suddenly you're not hungry. There's a point where you don't jump out of bed anymore to play a match."
Major strength
Not only is Williams the oldest player ever to be ranked No. 1, but she has also been the WTA's best player for the better part of the past two years.
Since the beginning of the 2012 clay-court season, Williams has played in 27 tournaments and won 19, including four majors, an Olympic gold medal and two year-end WTA championships. Her record in that span is a fabulous 130-6. That works out to a winning percentage of .956, well ahead of the best two men over the past two seasons, Rafael Nadal (122-13, .904) and Novak Djokovic (149-21, .876).
"I see more of the same," said three-time Grand Slam singles champion Lindsay Davenport from her California home. "Serena finally understands what she can achieve. Everything is up to her. Motivation won't be a problem, but health is everything.
"Strength for strength, she's head and shoulders above everyone else."
Justin Gimelstob, who will be working his seventh Australian Open for Tennis Channel, agrees.
"I fully expect her to continue the momentum and dominance of last year," he said. "As long as she stays healthy, she's physically superior to the competition. She has the biggest weapons.
"Her belief system in the big moments -- and this X factor is impossible to quantify -- she believes in herself, and it becomes a self-fulfilling prophesy."
Williams has been dominant in the majors. Including her first Grand Slam title at the 1999 US Open, she has collected 17 singles championships -- while 16 other women have combined to win the remaining 40. Williams has won the Australian Open, Wimbledon and US Open five times each. Her work in Melbourne is unparalleled in the Open era; if she reaches the fourth round this year, she'll surpass Margaret Court's Australian Open win total of 60, the Open era standard.
It is a reasonable assumption that Williams will win at least one Grand Slam title this year, which would tie her with Evert and Martina Navratilova. If she takes two -- something she's achieved in four of the past five years -- she'll be alone in third place in the Open era, behind Court (24) and Steffi Graf (22).
That would set the table for some historic drama over the next few years.
"To be compared with Chrissie and Martina -- not yet, because I'm still not quite there," Williams said after the US Open. "I can't necessarily compare myself to them because, numbers-wise, they're still greater."
For at least a few more weeks.
With her win last week in Brisbane, Serena is working on a 22-match winning streak. She defeated the two women closest to her in the WTA rankings -- Victoria Azarenka and Maria Sharapova -- in the final and semifinal. In straight sets.
Williams enters the Australian Open as the top seed for the third time and is 14-0 in those previous events, winning the title in 2003 and 2010. This year, she clearly has the failure of last year's tournament fresh in her mind. Williams lost in the quarterfinals to then-19-year-old American Sloane Stephens.
"Always motivated to do really well in Australia," Williams said in Brisbane. "I love coming to Melbourne. Hopefully I can last a little longer."
A not-so-sweet 17
Serena Williams was already a precocious 17-year-old when she arrived at Indian Wells in March 1999. A few weeks earlier, she had beaten Amelie Mauresmo in the Open Gaz de France final, but in the pristine desert air of southern California, she was a revelation.
In the second round, Davenport was toppled in straight sets. Mary Pierce went down in the quarterfinals. Her victim in the final was Graf, who would soon win her final Grand Slam title at Roland Garros. With a steely third set, Serena won 7-5.
"For me, Indian Wells was when she solidified into what everyone thought she could be," Davenport said. "She got one of those rolls there and was playing so well. I felt more tension about playing Serena than playing Venus. Serena was a much more difficult opponent for me with her slice serve and no glaring weakness in groundstrokes, unlike Venus and her indecisive forehand."
In a week's time, three top-10 players succumbed in Indian Wells. Serena reminisced about her Indian Wells coming-out at last year's US Open.
"I have been looking at film when I was 17," she said. "Gosh, I was good. I was really -- I had no idea."
"You can feel a strong energy and determination," Graf told The Associated Press in an interview in September. "That can be definitely intimidating playing against her. You know there's a force on the court.
"Even in her young age, she and her sister, they just had a really strong presence on the court."
Even so, at the US Open most folks were focused on Venus, who is 15 months older. Including that tournament, Venus had reached at least the quarterfinals of seven of the previous eight majors. The best Serena had done was a fourth-round appearance at the 1998 French Open. The 1999 event was only her second US Open.
After coasting through her first two matches, Serena needed three sets to vanquish future Grand Slam winner Kim Clijsters. Then she defeated Conchita Martinez in the fourth round and former world No. 1 Monica Seles in the quarterfinals. Davenport fell in the semifinals, and Serena found herself in the final opposite Martina Hingis, who had beaten Venus in the 1997 final and the semifinals a day earlier.
Williams smashed Hingis off the court 6-3, 7-6 (4) with eight aces (to none) and a 36-7 advantage in winners.
Afterward, Williams said the win was "too exciting to compute."
More than 14 years later, after this year's US Open, she said, "Gosh, it was amazing winning, like, at 17. For whatever reason, I never thought that I was going to lose that year. I just knew I was going to win it."
It took a while for that feeling to return.
Sister Venus won four majors in 2000 and 2001 before Serena won her second, the French Open in 2002. It was the first of four consecutive major titles, one of the great runs in history.
That was 11 years ago. Now, she has won four of the past six Grand Slam singles titles.
A rare opportunity
A few years ago, frustrated by Williams' seemingly cavalier attitude toward the sport, Chrissie Evert wrote her an open letter.
"Just remember," she noted, "that you have in front of you an opportunity of the rarest kind -- to become the greatest ever at something."
At an age when many players are contemplating retirement, Williams found a way to get better. She got in the best shape of her life. This allowed her to hit lower-risk shots on the run, which drastically cut down her unforced errors. She has always been at her best against the highest-ranked opponents, but with only two exceptions -- losing to Stephens in Australia and Sabine Lisicki in the fourth round at Wimbledon -- Williams did not take her eye off the ball.
For the first time, it appeared she fully understood what she meant to the sport -- and what it meant to her.
"She was beyond everyone as far as athleticism and power," Evert said. "The question was all the other stuff. She went through five, six years where she was in and out of the game, distracted or injured. Tragedies in her life, going through so much adversity. It's beautiful to see her come outside the other end because she deserves it. She deserves to break my record and Martina's."
After losing to Williams in last year's US Open final (6-1 in the third set), Azarenka -- eight years her junior -- was asked if she thought Williams could catch Graf's 22 majors.
"Well, it's not something I'm really thinking about, to be honest," Azarenka said, smiling graciously. "But I think it's incredible what she's achieving. She's playing definitely her best tennis right now.
"That's just really exciting for me to be able to compete against that type of player who can be the greatest of all time."
There is a widespread feeling that Federer will finish with his present total of 17 Grand Slam singles titles. How many will Williams wind up with?
"She's got a lot of tennis left in her," Graf told The AP. "I can easily see her pass all of our records. I don't see the competition catching up to her at all.
"We'll see how mentally and physically she's able to preserve herself over the next few years. I don't think anybody's ever played that far, that kind of tennis, at her age. I'll be curious to follow her."
Like Graf's husband, Andre Agassi, Williams took a number of mental and physical sabbaticals during her career. This allowed Agassi -- who finally realized he was squandering his great gift -- to summon the fire to compete late in his career. The same thing seems to have happened to Williams.
"There is a finish line," Gimelstob points out, "but hopefully not for a very long time. A healthy, focused and motivated Serena is virtually unbeatable. At the end of the day, her consistency won't have matched Chrissie or Martina or Steffi, but her record in the biggest moments will be her legacy.
"Setting a line in Vegas, I'd put the over-under at 20 -- and take the over. I'd take four and be surprised if she isn't into the low 20s. Steffi's 22 is very plausible."
Davenport isn't sure. Awaiting the imminent birth of her fourth child, she won't be in Australia but will work Indian Wells and the French Open as a Tennis Channel analyst.
"I'd say definitely 20, and then we'll see," Davenport said. "The only concern is injuries. She wants it so badly. She won't burn out. Last year, for the first time in a long time, she played a full schedule. She fought through it. The team will have to take a look at that.
"I think she has four left in her. … That's what my head tells me now. After she wins in Australia, we can chat again."
Making it happen
It helps to have a killer instinct.
In the crucible of a Grand Slam final, only Court was better in Open era competition. The Australian was 11-1 (.917) in major finals, and Williams isn't far behind at 17-4 (.810). By comparison, Navratilova and Evert were 18-14 (.562) and 18-16 (.530), respectively.
At least in her public pronouncements, Williams has seemed, well, almost humble.
"It's always awesome and such a great honor because I don't know if I'll ever win another Grand Slam," she said after the US Open. "Obviously, I hope so. I say that every time I win one."
If we've learned one thing over the years, Serena Williams doesn't spend a lot of time hoping for things to happen. She makes them happen.
"Minimum of one, maybe two this year," Evert said. "I see her beating mine and Martina's record. I think she can match Steffi. I don't say that easily. Margaret Court? What's she need? Seven to tie? Whoa … that's asking for a lot. That's basically saying four more years.
"Not sure about that."
Two years ago, Williams was coming off a dreary 2011 season that was marked by health and injury scares and, for the first time in five years, no major titles. She slowly found her game and won the last two Slams. And then it happened again last year.
This season, will she find the fire to again extend her reign over women's tennis?
"I actually had a similar dilemma last year," Williams said a few weeks ago in Brisbane. "Does it get better than two Slams and an Olympic gold, and I think I won a couple doubles titles in there somewhere.
"I obviously looked forward to the challenge, and hopefully I can just meet that challenge again."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MELBOURNE, Australia -- John Isner's stay in Australia has been cut short by injury for the second year in a row.
The 13th-seeded American retired with a nagging right ankle injury during his first-round match at the Australian Open on Tuesday after losing the first two sets to Slovakia's Martin Klizan 6-2, 7-6 (6).
Last year, Isner was forced to withdraw before the tournament began because of bone bruising in his right knee.
Both injuries happened in the same unlucky place for the American -- the Hopman Cup in Perth, a team exhibition event that is one of the warm-up tournaments for the first Grand Slam of the season.
"I know movement is not the best part of my game," the 6-foot-10 Isner said, "but at a certain point, I've got to be able to move without pain, and I wasn't able to do that today."
Isner was the only American man seeded at this year's Australian Open. (Canada, by contrast, has two -- Milos Raonic and Vasek Pospisil -- both of whom won their first-round matches.)
The big-serving Isner has struggled with injuries to his knees over the past year, retiring from his second-round match at Wimbledon with a left knee injury after pulling out of the Australian Open with the right knee injury.
"I thought I had a good shot at playing this match and winning this match, and I pulled out," he said. "I could have done the same last year, but I went home."
He said he was feeling confident coming into the new season, largely because his knees felt fine. After he tweaked the ankle in Perth, he decided to play another warm-up tournament in Auckland, New Zealand, last week to see whether it would feel better. He was in pain the entire week but went on to win the tournament.
"I was able to win my first match and didn't feel good afterwards and then I won again. The whole thing in Auckland was bizarre because I never expected to win that tournament," he said.
"I didn't come down here to win Auckland. I love that tournament but I came down here to try to do well here, and that wasn't the case."
Isner said the injury isn't serious -- he had an MRI exam in Perth that didn't reveal any bone fractures.
He will return to the U.S. to rest in a bid to be ready for a Davis Cup match against the Andy Murray-led British team in early February, which will be played at a makeshift clay court set up in the outfield at Petco Park, the home of the San Diego Padres.
"I feel like I will get over [this injury]. It doesn't concern me as much as some knee issues I've had in the past," he said. "I fully intend to get ready for Davis Cup."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MELBOURNE, Australia -- With a potential fourth-round match against four-time champion Novak Djokovic waiting for the winner, Sam Querrey and Fabio Fognini could be forgiven for merely wanting to get there.
For Querrey, a victory would be his first Round of 16 at the Australian Open, and for Fognini, his first fourth-round berth in any Grand Slam tournament. And in a classic matchup of power player versus counterpuncher, the 5-foot-10 Italian outran and got the last word in Friday on the 6-foot-6 American, winning 7-5, 6-4, 6-4.
Querrey's loss leaves Donald Young as the lone American man left in the tournament. Young will go up against Japan's Kei Nishikori in a third-round match Saturday night. And indeed, Fognini now will face Djokovic, a 6-3, 6-3, 7-5 winner over Denis Istomin on Friday night.
"I have a great relationship with him for 10 years," Djokovic said of Fognini, who is known as a clay-court specialist. "Once we get on the court, we're professionals and trying to win. He has been playing really well."
The Querrey-Fognini match was delayed three times by rain, once early in each set for a total of an hour and 28 minutes.
"It was a really long day," Fognini said, sighing.
But Querrey would not allow it to serve as an excuse, saying, "I felt pretty good. My hips tightened up a little because I'm a big guy, but it made no difference. [And] he seemed pretty even the whole time, I thought."
Fognini, who with Simone Bolelli eliminated Querrey and Ryan Harrison in doubles on Thursday, went from smashing his racket in frustration to winning with ease.
Querrey had 43 aces in his first two matches combined but just 10 Friday night. But it was not Querrey's big serve as much as his big forehand that let him down as the match wore on.
"He did a good job of counterpunching," Querrey said. "I missed too many first-ball forehands after my serve, and that may have been a combination of him putting pressure on me to maybe try to do a little too much with it. Probably I was just missing it. …
"I feel like I wasn't hitting my spots today. I just felt a little off. He did a great job of returning, but my serve wasn't anything close to two days ago."
Querrey got off to a strong start, breaking in the second game and leading 5-2 in the first set. But Fognini broke to pull to within 5-4 and again at 6-5, winning the final five games of the set.
Fognini attacked Querrey's second serve, ran down drop shots and dove for volleys, getting the crowd behind him and taking control for good after the second rain delay, breaking to go up 5-4 in the second and then winning the next game at love.
"Especially when I served for the first set at 5-4, I think I made 1 of 7 first serves that game, but he did a good job," Querrey said. "He's quick, he fought a lot of my balls back; he kept a lot of my serves in play; he had a lot of good passing shots, so kudos to him. I thought he played well."
Querrey had never come from two sets down to win as a pro, and this was not going to be his first. After the last rain delay at 2-all in the third, Fognini chipped away before breaking Querrey at love to take a 4-3 lead, then served it out, match point coming on a second-serve ace.
Querrey, 26, whose ranking would have received a bump from 51st into the top 50 with a win Friday, will next focus his attention on competition in the U.S., including, he hopes, one as a member of the U.S. Davis Cup team that will host Great Britain on clay courts at Petco Park, home of the San Diego Padres, Jan. 31 to Feb. 2.
Querrey will likely join John Isner and the Bryan Brothers on a team captained by Jim Courier.
"At least I hope so," Querrey said, winking.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MELBOURNE -- While the match-fixing report cast a shadow over the start of the Australian Open, the first week of play provided plenty of entertainment and drama.
Serena Williams is back in top form after a four-month layoff, while Rafael Nadal showed he was not after a nearly five-hour, first-round loss against Fernando Verdasco. Andy Murray is playing toward another final clash against Novak Djokovic, or an early departure home if his wife goes into labor early. Australian legend Lleyton Hewitt played his final singles match before an adoring crowd, while Nick Kyrgios entertained his fellow Aussies whether he was playing, yelling at the umpire or changing his shorts.
Our ESPN analysts share their highlights from the first week Down Under:
Andy Murray was on to something when he said it was "hypocritical" for tennis to take on betting companies as sponsors. The association is raising more questions for the sport's powers that be.
The past few years have been challenging for Victoria Azarenka, both on and off the court. But equipped with a new outlook and routine, the 26-year-old Belarusian has returned to top form.
From controversial young punk to Aussie icon, Lleyton Hewitt's extraordinary tennis journey helped keep Australian tennis on the map and spark a new generation of stars Down Under.
Mary Joe Fernandez: Nadal-Verdasco would be my choice on the men's side. On the women's side, Monica Puig versus Kristyna Pliskova was pretty exciting. Pliskova had 31 aces (a WTA record) and Puig saved five match points, three in the second set.
Brad Gilbert: The unbelievable drama and great tension in the Nadal-Verdasco match. I called it the sequel played seven years later with a different outcome.
Pam Shriver: I was out on the court when John Millman beat Gilles Muller. It was in the shadow of Hewitt's final moments in his match against David Ferrer, but it was still a packed court, because it was still an Australian player and the home crowd was raucous.
Fernandez: That's a tough one. It would be between Serena and Victoria Azarenka. Serena was amazing Friday night and Vika has looked good throughout. And Johanna Konta -- she beat Venus and [on Saturday] she continued to win. To me, she is the one people don't know about who is playing really, really well.
Gilbert: I was a little bit unclear as to how Serena would play. She hadn't had an official match since the US Open. ... To see her play six sets and absolutely blitz through it -- I was most surprised by how she is serving and moving.
Shriver: The way Serena has played. We were all wondering the first week what sort of rust would show. In the second set against Darya Kasatkina, she didn't lose a point on serve.
Fernandez: A little bit of Venus, a little Sloane Stephens, a little Simona Halep. Sloane had just won a tournament, Venus had a great run at the end of last year and Halep was expected to be contending for the title.
Gilbert: Because he had so much confidence coming in, I would probably say Rafa. He said he had his best offseason, so I was kind of thinking he might make a deep run here. Seeing him go out in the first round is most disappointing.
Shriver: I was disappointed that Rafa went from up two sets to one and 2-0 in the fifth, to losing. It's not because he didn't try. It's just, right now, he doesn't have the belief and weapons he had two or three years ago.
Fernandez: Zhang Shuai. Having never won a Grand Slam match before (she was 0-14), it was pretty surprising she beat Halep in the first round. She had talked about not playing anymore. That came out of nowhere.
Gilbert: Zhang. After beating Halep, you probably would have thought she'd then lose to Alize Cornet, yet she has reached the fourth round. Also, seeing Dudi Sela beat Verdasco and do things with the crowd, he was one of the best interviews. Someone in the stands was asked, "Can Dudi win?" The man looked up to the sky and said, "Only if we have divine intervention."
Shriver: That so many seeds are out on the women's side.
Fernandez: The shot of the tournament was Jo-Wilfried Tsonga against Pierre-Hugues Herbert. He was down set point and came up with an around-the-back, one-handed, backhand cross-court shot. That was pretty fun.
Gilbert: There was a nice moment when Tsonga came over to the aid of a ball girl who got popped by a ball. It was a great gesture. Another moment I'll remember, because I look for quirky things, was after Rajeev Ram lost in second round. Seeing him slumped in his chair after he came so close, it was like thrill of victory and agony of defeat. You could just feel his numbness.
Shriver: She lost early, but seeing Victoria Duval play was a sentimental moment that struck me. Because of her cancer, the lymphoma, being out of major tennis for a year and a half, then seeing her out there playing -- she didn't win the match, but just to see her back and looking healthy was a nice moment.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS --  Gael Monfils has withdrawn from the French Open because of a right knee injury.
The 13th-ranked Monfils was hurt in his second-round loss to Brian Baker at the Open de Nice on Wednesday. He is expected to need three weeks to recover.
Roland Garros organizers say the 2008 semifinalist will be replaced in the draw by a "lucky loser" -- a player eliminated in the qualifying tournament.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS --  Roger Federer tied Jimmy Connors' Open era record of 233 Grand Slam match wins by beating Tobias Kamke of Germany 6-2, 7-5, 6-3 in the first round of the French Open on Monday.
Federer, who owns a record 16 major championships, is 233-35 at tennis' top four tournaments, a .869 winning percentage. Connors was 233-49. The Open era began in 1968.
"That's a big one, because that was longevity," Federer said. "Jimmy is obviously one of the greats of all time and was around for 20 years."
Kamke fell to 6-10 at Grand Slams, never advancing past the third round.
Federer is playing in his 50th consecutive major tournament, the longest active streak and third-longest in the Open era, which began in 1968, when professionals were allowed into the Grand Slam events.
"Look, I obviously love the big tournaments," he said. "I have been so successful for such a long time, and to already tie that record (at) 30 years old is pretty incredible, so I'm very happy."
Federer turned 30 last August and is trying to become the first man that old to win a Grand Slam tournament since Andre Agassi was 32 at the 2003 Australian Open. Federer has gone more than two years without a major title -- his longest drought since winning his first at Wimbledon in 2003.
"You step back, you realize you have been playing for quite a long time. ... When I started, I loved playing against those famous players I used to see on TV. Now I'm playing against younger players, a new generation," he said. "It's great I didn't suffer that many injuries over these years. And I always had fun playing tennis."
Top-ranked Novak Djokovic, who is trying to win his fourth straight Grand Slam title, never faced a break point in beating Potito Starace of Italy 7-6 (3), 6-3, 6-1.
"It's just the first match here," Djokovic said in French on court after the match. "It's still a very long way to go before we talk about the final."
At last year's French Open, he lost to Federer in the semifinals.
"Well, pressure is always present. And the way I look at it, it is a privilege and, you know, it's a challenge," Djokovic said. "If you feel pressure, that means that you're doing something that is right."
Djokovic didn't have any problems on Court Philippe Chatrier on Monday, but he did have some trouble putting Starace away in the first set.
Although he didn't face a break point in the entire match, he missed all three of his own break chances in the first set and his first five in the third game of the second set.
After that, things started to click.
"At the start ... I was still trying to find the rhythm and movement on the court. And he obviously played a very good first set," Djokovic said. "But when I look at it now, after the match is over, maybe it was good for me to have the tough first set."
While Djokovic started with a bang, Alex Bogomolov Jr. chose to leave Roland Garros one point before he had to.
After more than four hours on court at the French Open, the Russian was trailing Arnaud Clement of France 6-2, 3-6, 4-6, 7-6 (2), 5-4 when he quit the match while serving because of leg cramps.
"My whole leg was straight. I couldn't bend it. I couldn't walk," Bogomolov said. "I didn't want to risk a potential ligament damage or something."
Bogomolov was playing at the French Open for the third time. He has now lost in the first round each time.
Earlier, Feliciano Lopez of Spain quit because of a side muscle injury after losing the first five games of his first-round match against Florent Serra of France.
The 15th-seeded Lopez pulled the muscle while practicing at Roland Garros on Thursday.
"In the beginning, I felt it was nothing really serious, but (the) day after, I couldn't play almost," Lopez said. "I tried to rest during the weekend just to try to play today, but it was impossible."
He said he hopes to be healthy in time for Wimbledon, which starts June 25.
Former top-ranked player Lleyton Hewitt also lost, falling to Blaz Kavcic of Slovenia 7-6 (2), 6-3, 6-7 (4), 6-3. No. 7 Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic, No. 10 John Isner of the United States and No. 11 Gilles Simon of France made it through.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS --  Sidelined in 2008 by a right shoulder that needed surgery, putting her tennis future suddenly in doubt, Maria Sharapova decided to use the free time to study a new language, the one spoken at the only Grand Slam tournament she had yet to win.
"I found a French school close to my house," she recalled, "and I did private lessons every single day for three months."
Sharapova cut short those classes when it was time to begin the slow, painful rehab process and get her shoulder back in shape. About 3½ years later, on Saturday at Roland Garros, Sharapova put all of that hard work to good use on the most important clay court there is -- and even trotted out a little French during the victory speech she often wondered if she'd ever get a chance to deliver.
Whipping big serves with that rebuilt shoulder, putting forehands and backhands right on lines, and even moving well on the red surface she once worried made her look like a "cow on ice," Sharapova beat surprise finalist Sara Errani of Italy 6-3, 6-2 to win her first French Open title and become the 10th woman with a career Grand Slam.
"It's a wonderful moment in my career," the 25-year-old Sharapova told the crowd in French, before switching to English to add: "I'm really speechless. It's been such a journey for me to get to this stage."
So much came so easily for Sharapova at the start: Wimbledon champion at age 17; No. 1 in the ranking at 18; U.S. Open champion at 19; Australian Open champion at 20. But a shoulder operation in October 2008 made everything tougher. She didn't play singles from August 2008 until the following May, when her ranking fell to 126th.
"It wasn't getting better as soon as everyone thought it would," she said about her shoulder. "That was the frustrating thing, because it was like, 'When is this going to end?' "
It took until her 10th post-surgery Grand Slam tournament for Sharapova to get back to a major final, at Wimbledon in July 2011, but she lost. She also reached the Australian Open final this January, but lost again.
There's something apropos about Sharapova's fourth career Grand Slam title -- and first since her shoulder was fixed -- coming in Paris, rounding out the quartet at a spot that always seemed to present the most difficulties. Her powerful shots lose some sting on clay, and the footing can be tricky for anyone who didn't grow up on the rust-colored stuff.
A global celebrity with millions of dollars in endorsement deals, Sharapova put herself through the grind required to get back to the top of her sport -- and to get better than ever on red clay.
She's unbeaten in 16 matches on it this season, including titles at Stuttgart and Rome.
"I could have said, 'I don't need this. I have money, I have fame, I have victories, I have Grand Slams.' But when your love for something is bigger than all those things, you continue to keep getting up in the morning when it's freezing outside, when you know that it can be the most difficult day, when nothing is working, when you feel like the belief sometimes isn't there from the outside world, and you seem so small," said Sharapova, who will return to No. 1 for the first time since June 2008 in Monday's WTA rankings. "But you can achieve great things when you don't listen to all those things."
Errani, for her part, never paid attention to those who said a 5-foot-4½ woman couldn't possibly compete against the very best in tennis. Posing at the net before the match, the 6-foot-2 Sharapova towered over her opponent -- then was head-and-shoulders above Errani when play began, too.
"I started badly, and that's what bothers me the most," said the 21st-seeded Errani, who admitted she was overcome by nerves at the outset. "You can't do that against players like her, because she was only going to get better once she loosened up."
Born 10 days apart in April 1987, both trained as kids at Nick Bollettieri's academy in Florida (Errani says she lost badly in their only head-to-head match there; Sharapova says she has no recollection). Both were playing in the French Open final for the first time.
The similarities end there, though. Sharapova was playing in her seventh Grand Slam singles final; Errani in her first, although she did team with Roberta Vinci to win the women's doubles title Friday. Errani was 19-18 for her career in major tournaments before these wonderful two weeks; Sharapova was 122-32.
Plus, Errani lost all 28 of her career matches against top-10 opponents until beating No. 10 Angelique Kerber in the quarterfinals and No. 6 Sam Stosur in the semifinals, after victories over past French Open champions Ana Ivanovic and Svetlana Kuznetsova in earlier rounds.
It was hardly shocking that the second-seeded Sharapova raced to a 4-0 lead within 14 minutes. Or that she produced 12 of the match's first 13 winners. Errani was able to make things more interesting when she managed to stretch points longer and longer, consistently coming out on top when exchanges lasted more than 10 strokes, her staccato grunts of "Heh!" contrasting with Sharapova's shrieks an octave or two higher.
As lopsided as the eventual result was, Errani made Sharapova earn it with winner after winner, and a 37-12 edge in that category.
"She hits very hard, very flat and very deep shots, barely over the net. She never let me do what I wanted to do. I always felt like I was being pushed around," Errani said. "I didn't play my best, but she also deserves credit for that."
Serving for the championship, Sharapova faced one last gut-check.
She frittered away one match point by shoving a forehand long, and Errani took the next point with a bold drop shot. Facing break point, Sharapova hit a backhand winner. Moments later, Errani saved Sharapova's second match point, with yet another superb drop shot.
The French fans -- eager for more tennis, and always ones to back an underdog -- began chanting, "Sa-ra! Sa-ra!"
"I started to laugh," Errani said later. "It seemed surreal -- to play against Sharapova, on center court, a full stadium, everyone yelling my name."
That turned out to be Sharapova's cue. She got her third match point with a 110 mph ace, No. 6 of the afternoon, and this time converted when Errani's sliced backhand hit the net.
Sharapova dropped her racket, covered her face with her hands and fell to her knees, muddying them with clay. Soon enough, she was cradling the silver champion's cup and biting her lower lip while listening to the Russian national anthem.
About 1½ hours later, at the start of her postmatch news conference, Sharapova was presented with a specially made glass trophy containing a cross-section of a clay court. Marking her completion of a career Grand Slam, it was etched with Saturday's date, Sharapova's name, and the years of her four major titles.
"Oh, this is beautiful. I never thought I would get this," Sharapova said. "I never thought I would want red clay, but I do. Now I do."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS --  Rafael Nadal was worried.
A guy so unflinching, so nearly unbeatable, while sliding and grinding and pounding his way past opponent after opponent at the French Open, got a real case of nerves during the 18 hours he and Novak Djokovic waited for the restart of their rain-interrupted final at Roland Garros.
Instead of focusing on how close he was to winning a record seventh French Open championship, Nadal grew increasingly wary of the other possible outcome: a loss in a fourth consecutive Grand Slam final against Djokovic, who was trying to become the first man since 1969 to collect four straight major titles.
When play was halted by showers on Sunday, Nadal was clinging to an ever-shrinking lead. It wasn't until a few minutes before setting foot back on Court Philippe Chatrier, his favorite arena at his favorite tournament on his favorite surface, that Nadal set aside his anxiety. Oh, did he. The King of Clay overwhelmed the No.1-ranked Djokovic for the 50 minutes and nine games they played Monday, wrapping up a 6-4, 6-3, 2-6, 7-5 victory that allowed Nadal to earn French Open trophy No. 7, breaking a tie with Bjorn Borg.
"You never know if you're going to win another one," said the second-ranked Nadal, who now owns 11 Grand Slam titles.
"I don't know if I am the best or not," he added. "I am not the right one to say that."
Djokovic, for his part, had zero doubts. He worked his way back into the match with an eight-game run when it was pouring Sunday, but otherwise was outplayed, at the start and the finish.
"He's definitely (the) best player in history ... on this surface," said Djokovic, whose 27-match Grand Slam winning streak ended, "and results are showing that he's one of the best ever."
Can't argue with that. Since his French Open debut at age 18 in May 2005, Nadal is 52-1 for his career at the tournament, the only loss coming to Robin Soderling in the fourth round in 2009. He's just as good elsewhere on clay, too: Nadal's won eight titles at Monte Carlo, seven at Barcelona, six at Rome.
Asked to explain his success on the surface, Nadal pointed not to his uppercut of a topspin-slathered forehand, or his superior returns of serve, but rather to his movement, his mental fortitude, and this: "I always was scared to lose."
Djokovic gave Nadal reason for added concern, having beaten him in the finals at Wimbledon in July, the U.S. Open in September, and the Australian Open in January. Djokovic was attempting to be only the third man to win four major tournaments in succession, joining Don Budge in 1938, and Rod Laver in 1962 and 1969.
Alas, Djokovic ran into Nadal at Roland Garros. The same thing happened to Roger Federer in 2006 and 2007, when his Grand Slam bids fell one win short because of losses to Nadal in the French Open final.
"For us, it was very important to win here now against Djokovic, because we knew that if he won again, the fourth one, then (Rafa) completing a Grand Slam of losses would have been ugly," said Toni Nadal, Rafael's uncle and coach. "And we were very close to doing that."
Instead, his nephew gained ground on Federer's record of 16 Grand Slam titles, tying Borg and Laver for fourth place.
Borg walked away from the sport at age 25 after losing the 1981 Wimbledon and U.S. Open finals to John McEnroe.
"If Borg had kept playing until he was 30, he might have won 10 French Opens -- something Nadal could wind up doing if he keeps playing," said Corrado Barazzutti, a top-10 player in the 1970s who lost all 10 career matches against the Swede.
"Borg was a player who, particularly on red clay, was unbeatable, in my opinion. Facing him on a court was like being trapped in a tunnel. It was dark. You couldn't move," Barazzutti said. "That must be what it's like to play Nadal."
If so, Nadal was much worse off Sunday when strong showers left the court slippery and the tennis balls heavy and clay-streaked. Djokovic, outclassed at the outset, emerged at his go-for-broke best, pushing around Nadal, who dropped a set for the only time in the tournament.
After Nadal held serve to get within 2-1 in the fourth set, they were sent home for the night, pushing the French Open beyond Sunday for the first time since 1973.
"We got lucky," Uncle Toni conceded.
By noon Monday, an hour before play resumed, normally bustling Roland Garros was eerily empty. Souvenir stands were shuttered. Green barriers blocked access to a pathway leading to several courts.
There were hundreds of unclaimed seats in the stands at the main stadium, and thick, gray clouds loomed overhead when the players stepped out.
Well-rested, they opened with a crescendo: The first point contained eight strokes, the third had 11, the fourth had 16, and the fifth had 21, ending with Djokovic's errant forehand that gave Nadal a chance to break. Djokovic kept right on swinging his racket, pounding himself in the noggin with his strings three times. (On Sunday, he vented frustration by whacking his racket on his green sideline bench so violently a chunk of the furniture flew off.)
On the next point, Nadal's shot slapped the white tape atop the net and trickled over. Djokovic got to the ball but couldn't do much, setting up Nadal for a cross-court backhand passing winner.
That was the break Nadal needed, and this was the Nadal everyone is accustomed to seeing charge around Roland Garros. There's a reason the back of his left shoe was etched with the outline of a bull's horns; the back of his right one was stamped with a black, bold "6," signifying his number of French Open titles entering Monday.
Even a passing shower that the players waited out on the sideline didn't slow Nadal on this afternoon. He's from the island of Mallorca, and loves to spend his rare downtime playing golf or hanging out at the beach or fishing.
Maybe it was fitting, then, that pieces of blue sky peeked out from behind the clouds as Monday's end neared.
With Djokovic trailing 6-5, and serving to try to force a tiebreaker, Nadal smacked a forehand winner to get to match point. Djokovic saved four match points in the quarterfinals, but there would be no such reprieve this time.
Instead, Djokovic double-faulted, an anticlimactic ending to a highly anticipated match filled with awkward stops and starts because of the uncooperative weather.
Nadal dropped to his knees and covered his face, thick strips of white tape covering the knuckles and fingertips of his racket-wielding left hand. He rose, chucked his racket, and clambered into the stands for a group hug with his father and various members of his entourage. Then he leaped into Toni's arms, spilling his uncle's bottle of water.
"When you lose, it's because you don't deserve the title," Nadal said. "So in my mind, this was the final I had to win.  That's why I was so emotional."
Nearly two hours later, Nadal and more than a dozen others gathered on the court for a photo session of the sort you might see at a wedding. First, everyone stood together for a picture, Nadal cradling the trophy. Then came various two-person poses: Rafa with Dad; Rafa with Uncle Toni; Rafa with his buddy Pau Gasol of the Los Angeles Lakers.
Might seem a tad over-the-top for a guy who's done this so many times.
Then again, you only win your seventh French Open trophy once.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS -- Samantha Stosur, the 2010 French Open runner-up, waited 2½ hours to play because of rain, then quickly won her opening match at Roland Garros.
The Australian swept the first nine games Tuesday and drubbed 42-year-old Kimiko Date-Krumm 6-0, 6-2.
Play was delayed at the start on a 55-degree afternoon, and when the rain finally stopped, Stosur was ready. Playing on cozy Court 1, nicknamed "the bullring," Stosur dominated with her strong serve and pinpoint groundstrokes, repeatedly skipping shots just inside the lines.
Rain returned at midafternoon, prompting another delay.
"I was happy to get out there and start," she said. "It was spitting a little bit when we went out there. You think, 'Oh, are we going to start or are we not?' Lucky for me I was able to finish the match before this last downpour came."
Frenchwoman Marion Bartoli, a semifinalist two years ago, needed more than three hours on center court to beat Olga Govortsova 7-6 (8), 4-6, 7-5.
Australian Open champion Victoria Azarenka's match against Elena Vesnina was among 11 first-round matches postponed. They won't begin until at least Wednesday, three days after some players were already into the second round.
The rain, which the forecast also calls for on Wednesday, sets up a situation where Azarenka, for example, would need to win seven matches across 11 days to take home the trophy, while 2002 champion Serena Williams -- who got to begin the tournament Sunday and is supposed to play in the second round Wednesday -- would have her seven matches spread over 14 days if she goes the distance.The ninth-seeded Stosur's best showing at Roland Garros was three years ago, when she lost in the final to Francesca Schiavone. She won the U.S. Open in 2011 but this year has been hampered by a right calf injury and has yet to reach a semifinal.Stosur said she's now feeling 100 percent and hoping for a good run in Paris."The first hurdle is done, but there are many, many more ahead of me," she said. "I have to stay on track, but I think this was a very good start."Date-Krumm, who won the Strasbourg doubles title last week, is the third-oldest woman to play in the French Open. When she made her Roland Garros debut in 1989, nearly half the players in this year's women's draw had not yet been born.She said she didn't play any singles matches on clay leading up to Roland Garros because the surface is her weakest, and while she had low expectations against Stosur, she felt she played better toward the finish."I enjoy it a little bit in the end of the second set," she said. "My tennis, it was not so bad. Stosur is so strong, and she's specialist on the clay. ... I'm already focused on the grass-court season."Qualifier Mariana Duque-Marino beat Kristyna Pliskova 6-2, 6-0.After 90 minutes of play, the rain returned. Soggy fans huddled in corridors and formed long lines at the gourmet coffee, hot dog and waffle stands.Last week, tournament officials said they would move ahead with plans to build a retractable roof over center court, despite a judicial ruling in March that put the project on hold. The roof would be completed in 2018 as part of a $440 million renovation project at Roland Garros.The men's final last year between Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal was halted because of rain in the fourth set, forcing an overnight suspension and the completion of the tournament on a Monday. It was the first time in 39 years the French Open didn't finish on time.

The rain, which the forecast also calls for on Wednesday, sets up a situation where Azarenka, for example, would need to win seven matches across 11 days to take home the trophy, while 2002 champion Serena Williams -- who got to begin the tournament Sunday and is supposed to play in the second round Wednesday -- would have her seven matches spread over 14 days if she goes the distance.
The ninth-seeded Stosur's best showing at Roland Garros was three years ago, when she lost in the final to Francesca Schiavone. She won the U.S. Open in 2011 but this year has been hampered by a right calf injury and has yet to reach a semifinal.
Stosur said she's now feeling 100 percent and hoping for a good run in Paris.
"The first hurdle is done, but there are many, many more ahead of me," she said. "I have to stay on track, but I think this was a very good start."
Date-Krumm, who won the Strasbourg doubles title last week, is the third-oldest woman to play in the French Open. When she made her Roland Garros debut in 1989, nearly half the players in this year's women's draw had not yet been born.
She said she didn't play any singles matches on clay leading up to Roland Garros because the surface is her weakest, and while she had low expectations against Stosur, she felt she played better toward the finish.
"I enjoy it a little bit in the end of the second set," she said. "My tennis, it was not so bad. Stosur is so strong, and she's specialist on the clay. ... I'm already focused on the grass-court season."
Qualifier Mariana Duque-Marino beat Kristyna Pliskova 6-2, 6-0.
After 90 minutes of play, the rain returned. Soggy fans huddled in corridors and formed long lines at the gourmet coffee, hot dog and waffle stands.
Last week, tournament officials said they would move ahead with plans to build a retractable roof over center court, despite a judicial ruling in March that put the project on hold. The roof would be completed in 2018 as part of a $440 million renovation project at Roland Garros.
The men's final last year between Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal was halted because of rain in the fourth set, forcing an overnight suspension and the completion of the tournament on a Monday. It was the first time in 39 years the French Open didn't finish on time.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS --  Five years after teaming up, Frantisek Cermak and Lucie Hradecka won their first doubles title together at the French Open.
The players from the Czech Republic won the mixed doubles title Thursday by defeating Daniel Nestor of Canada and Kristina Mladenovic of France 1-6, 6-4, 10-6.
In the super tiebreaker, the Czechs won four straight points to lead 9-5 and earned the title when Mladenovic netted a backhand volley.
It was the first Grand Slam title for Cermak and the second for Hradecka, who also won the women's doubles title at Roland Garros with Andrea Hlavackova in 2011. The pair lost in the Australian Open final in January.
After the match, Cermak and Hradecka kissed the Coupe Marcel Bernard. Their partnership has improved since their first match together five years ago, when they lost in the first round at Wimbledon.
"We didn't start well," Cermak said, with a laugh. "We're improving."
Hradecka still has a shot at the women's doubles title. She and Hlavackova will play their semifinal on Friday.
Nestor and Mladenovic led 4-0 in the first set. Cermak dropped serve in the opening game by netting three volleys and Hradecka double-faulted on break point. They took the first set when Cermak sent a forehand volley wide.
However, the Czechs broke Nestor in the opening game of the second. While serving for the second set, they rallied from 0-40 to even the match on a backhand volley from Hradecka.
"I'm a little bit upset that I lost serve first game in the second because that kind of changed momentum, although we did have some chances to break back," Nestor said.
Nestor won the men's doubles title four times at Roland Garros. He teamed up for the first time with Mladenovic, who at 20 is half his age. Despite the loss, the Canadian veteran pledged in the post-match news conference to play mixed doubles with Mladenovic at Wimbledon.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS -- As Maria Sharapova celebrated her return to the French Open final, she let loose one last scream -- this one a happy holler.
Serena Williams won more quietly and quickly, and she'll play Sharapova for the title Saturday.
Sharapova, the defending champion, overcame 11 double-faults to win a semifinal shriekfest against Victoria Azarenka, 6-1, 2-6, 6-4. Williams then advanced to her first French Open final since 2002 by dispatching Sara Errani 6-0, 6-1 in 46 minutes of astounding power and precision.
Williams' win was the most lopsided women's semifinal at Roland Garros since 1984, when Chris Evert beat Camille Benjamin 6-0, 6-0.
Sharapova beat Errani in the final last year to complete a career Grand Slam, but she faces a tougher test this time. She's 2-13 against Williams, who has been on a mission after more than a decade of disappointment in Paris.
"Obviously whatever I did in the past hasn't worked," Sharapova said. "So I'll have to try to do something different and hopefully it will."
The top-ranked Williams, a 15-time Grand Slam champion, won her only Roland Garros title 11 years ago by beating her sister Venus in the final.
"I'm very happy to be back in the French Open final 11 years later," Williams told the crowd in French. "I'm still here 11 years later. It's so wonderful for me."
While Williams easily won her semifinal, Sharapova advanced past Azarenka with a clamor. The two most notorious grunters in tennis wailed on nearly every swing, matching pitch and volume as they swapped powerful shots from the baseline. They sounded as if they were pushing a stalled Peugeot across lanes of traffic in the Arc de Triomphe.
"Come on, Monica," a spectator yelled at Sharapova, referring to one of the game's great grunters, Monica Seles.
The aggressive swings resulted in a seesaw semifinal. Sharapova whacked 12 aces but was erratic with her second serve, and her groundstrokes were also unpredictable.
She needed five match points to seal the victory. Serving for the victory for the second time, she held at love and finished with an ace.
"Those last few points are the toughest," Sharapova said. "I'm so happy that I regrouped and came out at 5-4 and served it out really well."
Following a 35-minute rain delay before the third set, Sharapova hit four double-faults in a single game, the last of them on break point, to make it 2-all. She struggled again with her serve at 5-2, losing a tense, sloppy 12-minute game when she squandered four match points and double-faulted on the final two points.
She was steadier at the end, however, and after accepting a cursory congratulatory handshake from Azarenka, Sharapova screamed through a grin.
"To come back as the defending champion, it's extremely special to get back on that stage where it comes down to the last two players of the tournament," Sharapova said.
She improved her record at Roland Garros to 43-9, best among active women. That includes victories in her past 13 French Open matches.
Azarenka, a two-time Australian Open champion, was playing in her first Roland Garros semifinal. She still believes she can win a clay-court Grand Slam title.
"Oh, sure," she said. "Not this year."
Williams took control against Errani by winning 26 of 34 points in the opening set. The match was 37 minutes old before Errani won a game, and the crowd responded with a roar as the Italian raised her arms in mock jubilation.
Williams was undeterred and raced to the finish line. She won 28 of 33 points on her serve and had a 40-2 advantage in winners while losing only 16 points.
"I had to win this match," Williams said. "So I told myself, 'Serena, be focused today.'"
The result extended her career-best winning streak to 30 consecutive matches. She improved to 20-3 in major semifinals, and she's 6-0 against Errani.
"What she did today is unbelievable," Errani said. "She's very strong. She's an unbelievable player. She had great day."
Sharapova, who lost her opening set in the quarterfinals 6-0, started slowly again against Azarenka. Sharapova double-faulted twice in the first game and was broken at love.
But this time she quickly righted herself, temporarily finding the range with her serve and cracking ferocious returns. She won 22 of the final 26 points in the first set and closed it out with an ace.
"The serve is definitely something that you never know what to expect," Azarenka said.
Then Sharapova began to misfire while Azarenka found her timing. Consistently stepping into the court and smacking groundstrokes close to the baseline, Azarenka swept the final four games of the second set to even the match.
Next came rain, and when the match resumed both players struggled to find any rhythm. The tennis was louder than the crowd in the third set when subdued fans quietly endured a flurry of errors -- forced and unforced -- by the two big hitters.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS -- Jean-Julien Rojer of the Netherlands and Anna-Lena Groenefeld of Germany won the mixed doubles title at the French Open by defeating eighth-seeded Nenad Zimonjic of Serbia and Julia Goerges of Germany 4-6, 6-2, 10-7 on Thursday.
Rojer was playing his first Grand Slam final while Groenefeld won the mixed doubles title at Wimbledon with Mark Knowles of the Bahamas in 2009.
"I gained a friend this week. I lost one, because I had to tell some other player that I'm not playing with her," Rojer said. "So I hope she understands, especially now. But I apologized like 18 times to her."
Rojer and Groenefeld were teaming up for the first time.
"Actually, I was asking around," Groenefeld said. "No one wanted to play with me, and then he said yes."
They saved three match points in the semifinal against Yaroslava Shvedova of Kazakhstan and Bruno Soares of Brazil on Wednesday.
Zimonjic and Goerges took the opening set when the Serb hit a forehand return winner off Rojer's serve.
Rojer and Groenefeld evened the match as Goerges dropped serve twice in the second set. They won four straight points in the final-set champions tiebreaker to lead 5-2 before clinching the victory when Goerges netted a backhand volley.
"For Julia, it was difficult to get into the match. For sure, it was difficult because it was her first (major) final," Zimonjic said. "Anna-Lena, she has more experience. She played already finals at Wimbledon, so I'm sure that's what helped her a lot there."
Zimonjic won the mixed doubles title at the French Open in 2006 and 2010 with Katarina Srebotnik of Slovenia.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS -- Moments before his third French Open final in four years, Novak Djokovic jogged in a stadium hallway near a poster of the Coupe des Mousquetaires, the silver trophy awarded to the men's champion at the only major tournament he has never won.
This time, it would be Stan Wawrinka standing between the No. 1-seeded Djokovic and the title at Roland Garros that the Serb needs for a career Grand Slam.
And once again, Djokovic came up one victory shy, stopped by the eighth-seeded Wawrinka and his magical, one-handed backhand. Wawrinka won his first French Open championship and second major title by stunning Djokovic 4-6, 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 in a superbly played match Sunday.
The odds of Stan Wawrinka winning the French Open looked worse than his hideous shorts, but behind the best one-handed backhand in the game, Stan showed us why he's again the man.
Newly minted champion Stan Wawrinka said he played the match of his life, which might be the biggest understatement of the entire French Open.
Novak Djokovic wanted this French Open title, but at the end of the day, there was nothing he could do to withstand the relentless firepower from Stan Wawrinka.
"I know he's looking for that title," Wawrinka said. "I hope he will get one, one day, because he deserves one."
Wawrinka exited in the first round in Paris a year ago. And he had lost 17 of his past 20 matches against Djokovic. But Wawrinka would not relent on this sunlit afternoon, compiling twice as many winners, 60 to 30.
"Certainly one of the best matches of my career," Wawrinka said, "if not the best."
That beautiful backhand of his was a big reason; one even made its way around the net post before landing on the red clay.
Another backhand earned the match's last break, to 5-4 in the fourth set. And, fittingly, yet another finished off Djokovic's 28-match winning streak.
Novak Djokovic is the fourth men's player to ever lose three times in the French Open final but the only one to lose three times in the final while never winning it.
Losses in French Open men's final
Djokovic called the stroke "one of the best one-handed backhands that I have seen."
The 30-year-old Wawrinka, so long in the shadow of his Swiss Davis Cup teammate and pal Roger Federer, added to the championship he won at last year's Australian Open. That's when Wawrinka became the first man in 21 years to beat the top two seeds en route to a Grand Slam title. He duplicated that in Paris, eliminating No. 2 Federer in the quarterfinals before toppling Djokovic.
When Djokovic received the silver plate given to the losing finalist, the spectators gave him an unusually long ovation. Djokovic shook his head and his eyes welled with tears.
"Not easy to stand there as a runner-up again," Djokovic said, "but I lost to a better player who played some courageous tennis."
The 28-year-old Djokovic has won eight Grand Slam championships: five at the Australian Open, two at Wimbledon and one at the U.S. Open. He must wait a year for another chance to become the eighth man with at least one title from each major.
Djokovic came up short against Rafael Nadal in the 2012 and 2014 finals. He cleared that hurdle this year, defeating the nine-time champion in the quarterfinals. Djokovic then defeated Andy Murray in a two-day, five-set semifinal that concluded about 25 hours before Sunday's start.
"Maybe in some important moments, I didn't feel I had that explosivity in the legs, but, look, at the end of the day, (Wawrinka) was just a better player," Djokovic said.
Normally, it's Djokovic's sliding, stretching, body-contorting defense that wears down opponents, but he looked spent after lengthy baseline exchanges that went 20, 30, even 40 strokes.
When he clinched the first set, Djokovic swiveled to look toward his coaches, Boris Becker and Marian Vajda, and bellowed. The trophy, propped on the wooden edge of the president's box, stood but a few feet away, glistening.
At that moment, it was but two sets away.
So close, yet so far.
Wawrinka broke to take the second set when Djokovic slapped a backhand long on a 23-stroke point. Djokovic spiked his racket, caught it, and slammed it a second time, mangling the thing. That drew derisive whistles from spectators and a warning from the chair umpire.
"You go through emotions," Djokovic said. "Of course I was more nervous than any other match."
By now, Wawrinka was the aggressor, and his shots kept finding their appointed marks. Djokovic made one last stand, taking a 3-0 lead in the fourth set. Wawrinka, though, reeled off six of the last seven games.
When it was over, Wawrinka tossed his racket overhead. At the net, Djokovic patted the 2015 French Open champion, a frequent practice partner of his, on the cheek.
Djokovic said later it sometimes seems as if all the attention others pay to his pursuit of a title in Paris ignores that others, such as Wawrinka, are just as intent to win.
"It feels like I'm the only player who wants to win this trophy, and nobody wants to win it as much as I do," Djokovic said. "This is completely untrue."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
In the world of tennis, Gardnar Mulloy has traveled where no other member of the International Tennis Hall of Fame -- man or woman -- had gone before.
Mulloy, the oldest living member of the Hall of Fame, officially becomes a centenarian on Friday, Nov. 22, 2013. Still living up to his reputation as the handsome Silver Fox, he is the only player to be enshrined in the Hall of Fame to live long enough to blow out 100 candles on a birthday cake. Americans Gene Mako (1916-2013) and Sidney Wood (1911-2009) made it to 97, and American Dodo Cheney, 97 and counting, is only three years from joining Mulloy in that distinction.
"It's my 100th," said Mulloy, who came to the phone for a chat last week after his wife, Jackie, mentioned not to keep him too long because he tires easily these days. "I guess it's special."
It's hard to ever know what the key to longevity is, but Mulloy, who was married to first wife, Madeleine Cheney, for 55 years has a family history of people living well into their 90s. He also has been fastidious about maintaining a clean living lifestyle as a vegetarian, and he avoids sugar, carbonated drinks, coffee, tea and alcohol.
"Gardnar never drank, but one year we were playing doubles at the French championships and he lost early in the singles, earlier than he hoped to lose," said 86-year-old Dick Savitt, who teamed with Mulloy to reach the French National doubles final in 1951 and '52. "We went out to dinner, and he decided he was going to have some wine. Having never drank any, he had a few glasses and the next day he had a terrible hangover. We had to play a match, and Gardnar looked and felt awful. We just came through in five sets, and we did make it to the finals, where we lost to a really good team, Ken McGregor and Frank Sedgman."
Born in Washington, D.C., Mulloy moved to Miami as a little boy and has never stopped being a proud Miamian, not to mention a loyal University of Miami Hurricane since receiving his undergraduate and law degrees there. An all-around athlete, he represented UM in football and boxing before starting the college's tennis team. At one time, he was ranked sixth in Florida in 3-meter diving. Later, he would become the UM tennis coach and somehow managed to recruit Pancho Segura, a three-time NCAA singles champion, even though the Ecuadorean couldn't produce any evidence he ever even attended high school.
In the end, it was tennis that became Mulloy's destiny. Considered the No. 1 singles player in the world in 1952 having reached the U.S. National singles final that year, he won four U.S. National doubles titles (1942, '45, '46, 1948), and, at the ripe old age of 43, won the Wimbledon doubles trophy with 33-year-old Budge Patty in 1957.
"He [Mulloy] was a really great player," Savitt said. "He was very athletic, very graceful, and played well into his 40s. He was a great athlete and was a big-time swimmer. He played football and he boxed and did everything. He was a very tough competitor, and he would do pretty much anything to win.
"Tennis was big in his life," added Savitt, who keeps in touch with Mulloy by phone. "That's what he was, and that's what he did."
A Davis Cup stalwart, Mulloy competed in 12 Davis Cup ties through seven years with an overall 11-3 record in the competition. He played on three winning U.S. final teams (1946, '48 and '49), defeating Australia on all three occasions.
"Playing Davis Cup for the United States was pretty special," Mulloy said when asked what stands out most from his tennis career. "Today, Davis Cup seems more important in Europe and the United States seems to have brushed it off. Maybe that's why we're not winning it. I played on three Davis Cup-winning teams, and we considered it pretty big. Representing your country is a privilege."
Tennis opened the door to a different world for Mulloy, notable for being handsome, intelligent and fearlessly outspoken.
When Dade County tried to cut down a tree on his street in Miami when he was 10, to prevent that from happening, he climbed the tree and refused to come down. While a naval lieutenant during World War II, he was in command of a vessel and took exception when a visiting British general had disparaging words regarding Americans, and Mulloy had the temerity to confine said general to his cabin.
Mulloy even bantered a couple of times with Queen Elizabeth. Once, when she was still a princess, he asked her why he never saw her in the Royal Box at Wimbledon. Someone accompanying the princess explained she had official duties to take care of, to which he quipped he thought she couldn't get a ticket and he'd be glad to organize one for her. When, as queen, she presented him with his 1957 doubles winner's trophy he asked her whether she remembered him. She replied, "I remember you, Mr. Mulloy. As a matter of fact, I had difficulty getting in today as you forgot to leave me tickets."
Mulloy, who won 129 U.S. national titles and played senior events into his mid-90s, also had an unexpected chance encounter with President Bill Clinton. When he went to introduce himself to the former free-world leader, the president told Mulloy he knew exactly who he was.
"I was playing a tournament in Washington, D.C., and [Clinton] was president then," Mulloy said. "He was peeking through the backdrop, and I spotted him. I went to leave the court to walk around and greet him. The umpire said, "If you leave the court, Mr. Mulloy, you'll be defaulted," but I just waved at [the umpire] and continued on to see the president. And he didn't default me. I went back and continued the match."
Asked whether Clinton inquired whether he had received Mulloy's vote, Mulloy laughed and said, "No, but I did vote for him."
It's not only former presidents and royalty who have kept company with Mulloy. Many younger players from the South Florida community were smart enough to take advantage of having a true tennis legend in their midst.
"I've known him forever and ever and ever," said Harold Solomon, a former top-five player who grew up in nearby Fort Lauderdale. "When we were kids, Eddie [Dibbs] used to go down all the time to play with him. Gardnar was great. When we were in our teens, he was still playing great. Stuff we did with Gardnar, he loves animals, so we'd go and play his pro-am to support his Pet Rescue efforts."
Mulloy, who used to regularly catch tennis live at the Sony Open in Miami, has been dedicated to keeping tabs on the direction tennis is taking.
"I'm not too enticed with it," said Mulloy, when asked his opinion of pro tennis in the 21st century. "The game has changed. There's no net play, and that's because the balls has less fuzz on them, and they go throughout the air faster, bounce higher, making it more difficult to get to the net. It used to be you had to end up at the net on every point to win. Now, you just stay back, have long rallies until someone makes a mistake."
Not surprisingly, Mulloy tends to stay closer to home these days, so his upcoming birthday celebration will be a backyard affair.
"It's going to be pretty big," Mulloy said. "We're having cake and ice cream and putting up a few tents. I'm inviting a lot of people, including [88-year-old former player] Doris Hart, so we'll have a big crowd and I think I'll get a lot of speeches."
In case anyone is wondering, an optimistic Mulloy says he's eyeing his next 100 years: "I just hope I can walk a little better and without a walker."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
TOKYO -- Japanese tennis star Kei Nishikori has enlisted the help of Michael Chang as he looks to break into the top 10 in 2014.
Chang will join Nishikori's coaching staff for 17-20 weeks, Nishikori's management team announced on Wednesday.
The 41-year-old American will act as an advisory coach to the 17th-ranked Nishikori, with full-time coach Dante Bottini remaining in his current role. Nishikori has been training with Chang for the last two weeks in California.
The 23-year-old rose to No. 11 last season and has contributed to a rejuvenation of tennis in Japan. He won his third career title in Memphis in February.
Chang became the youngest man to earn a Grand Slam singles title when he won the French Open in 1989 at 17.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
BRISBANE, Australia -- Serena Williams did a quick little dance behind the baseline to remind herself to move her feet. After a complete air swing at the net in the second set, she smiled ruefully and drew in some long, deep breaths.
She netted a service return on her first match point.
Top-ranked Williams' first competitive match of the season, on New Year's Eve, was by no means perfect, but the 6-4, 6-4 win over Andrea Petkovic at the Brisbane International was a decent start against a player who has been ranked as high as No. 9.
Williams made 36 unforced errors, including the big miss on Petkovic's floater in the fifth game of the second set, but hit 35 winners and fired 11 aces including one at 196 kph (122 mph) to bring up set point in the first.
"It was an intense match, which was really good," Williams said. "She's been in the top 10 before and she was on her way to being even better. It was a good match for me." Petkovic is on her way back up the rankings after missing most of 2012 with injuries and started this season at No. 39.
Williams started 2013 in Brisbane with a title, the first of 11 for a year that included two major championships. She's back with the aim of carrying the momentum into 2014. And she's already into the quarterfinals where she'll meet ninth-seeded Dominika Cibulkova, who overcame 43-year-old Japanese veteran Kimiko Date-Krumm 6-3, 1-6, 6-3.
Williams had a win-loss record of 78-4 last season and spent all but seven weeks atop the rankings, and she hasn't lowered her expectations for the year ahead.
"I had a similar question in 2012. I had such a good year winning two slams and a (Olympic) gold and two doubles. It was a lot," she said. "I just didn't think I could do better. Arguably I may have done better (in 2013), so I'm just going to be up for that challenge again."
The other featured women's player in Brisbane, third-seeded Maria Sharapova, received a walkover into the quarterfinals when her Australian opponent, 17-year-old qualifier Ashleigh Barty, withdrew with a left thigh injury on Tuesday evening.
Sharapova and Barty were scheduled to play Wednesday.
Barty, who will also miss next week's Hobart International, went through three rounds of qualifying in Brisbane to book her place in the main draw. She beat Daniela Hantuchova in the first round of the main draw.
"It's a tough decision but a smart one that we have to make," Barty said. "It's pretty much just I need give myself, my body, 10 to 12 days to recover and hopefully be right for the Australian Open."
In another second-round match, fourth-seeded Jelena Jankovic beat Elina Svitolina of Ukraine 6-1, 6-3.
On the men's side, Lleyton Hewitt beat Australian qualifier Thanasi Kokkinakis 6-3, 7-5, sixth-seeded Feliciano Lopez of Spain had a 6-4, 6-4 win over Mikhail Kukushkin of Kazakhstan and No. 8 Jeremy Chardy beat fellow Frenchman Adrian Mannarino 7-6 (4) 7-5.
There was a big upset in the WTA's ASB Classic at Auckland, New Zealand, where top-seeded Roberta Vinci of Italy lost 3-6, 6-4, 6-2 to 259th-ranked Ana Konjuh of Croatia. Konjuh, who celebrated her 16th birthday last Friday, is the reigning Australian and U.S. Open girls singles champion.
Fourth-seeded Sorana Cirstea of Romania and former champion Yanina Wickmayer of Belgium both lost to qualifiers, while second-seeded Ana Ivanovic and No. 3 Kirsten Flipkens advanced.
Former No. 1-ranked Ivanovic overcame a sore shoulder and saved four set points on serve on her way to a 7-5, 7-6 (2) win over American Alison Riske.
The second-seeded Ivanovic required treatment during the second set and played the latter stages with her right shoulder strapped.
At 3-5 and 0-40 down in the second, she faced the prospect of a difficult third set but strung together a series of powerful serves to save the game, then broke Riske to force a tiebreak.
At the Hopman Cup in Perth, Flavia Pennetta and Andreas Seppi beat Samantha Stosur and Bernard Tomic 6-3, 6-4 in the mixed doubles to give Italy a 2-1 win over Australia in Group A.
Pennetta beat Stosur 6-4, 6-4 in the singles before Tomic leveled with a 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 win over Seppi. It was Australia's second loss in the tournament.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SHENZHEN, China -- Top-seeded Li Na defended her Shenzhen Open title Saturday by defeating Peng Shuai 6-4, 7-5 in only the second all-Chinese final on the WTA Tour.
Li captured her eighth career WTA title and first since Shenzhen last year. Peng is now winless in six finals.
The No. 3-ranked Li is hoping to build momentum heading into the Australian Open, where she has reached the final in two of the past three years. She lost to Victoria Azarenka in last year's final and fell to Kim Clijsters in 2011.
Li retired against Zheng Jie in the only other WTA Tour final featuring two Chinese players, at the Estoril Open in 2006.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS -- Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova is making up for lost time at the age of 22. The Russian looked like a safe bet to become a top 10 player when she cracked the top 50 in 2008 and broke into the top 20 two years later.
Since reaching a career-high No. 13 ranking in July 2011, Pavlyuchenkova has struggled to fulfill her potential.
She might have put her career back on track by defeating third-seeded Sara Errani of Italy 3-6, 6-2, 6-3 Sunday in the final of the Open GDF Suez for her sixth career title.
"Definitely, now I feel more mature," Pavlyuchenkova said. "My mentality is a little bit different. Last year or a few years ago, I would lose here in the first round, for sure."
Pavlyuchenkova captured her first title of the season and her first since winning the Portugal Open in May 2013.
The unseeded Russian dictated the points, making 48 winners to 18 for Errani.
Errani won seven straight games to rally from a 3-1 deficit in the first set and lead 2-0 in the second. But Pavlyuchenkova responded by also winning seven straight games to even the match and lead 1-0 in the third.
In the final set, Pavlyuchenkova hit a backhand return winner to break for a 5-3 lead and sealed the victory with a forehand winner.
"That was a very mental match," Pavlyuchenkova said. "That gives me a bit of confidence. But I still need to work harder. That was a fantastic week, but I have to keep it going. I hope my level will be a bit more consistent and that I will keep this level."
Pavlyuchenkova won all her matches at this tournament in three sets. She was coached for a brief period last year by Martina Hingis before resuming her partnership with her dad, Sergey.
"He was my first coach, so he taught me everything I'm doing now," Pavlyuchenkova said. "And he was always there for me, even when I had other coaches. He never let me down."
Pavlyuchenkova got off to a good start by breaking Errani in the third game. But she made numerous unforced errors to squander that advantage, dropping serve at 3-2 with a wide backhand and at 4-3 with a forehand into the net. Errani hit a backhand drop shot to take the opening set.
"I had a lot of emotions going on," Pavlyuchenkova said. "I was just stressing out because I was missing some shots. She was very strong today, so that was frustrating."
Errani broke Pavlyuchenkova in the opening game of the second set with a forehand pass. Pavlyuchenkova saved a break point at 2-0 to stay in the match and the momentum suddenly changed.
"From 2-0 in the second set, I thought I had a blackout," Errani said. "The ball was heavier. For me, it was difficult. I had some very bad games."
Pavlyuchenkova slapped forehand return winners to break serve at 2-1 and 3-2 in the second set before Errani sent a forehand long to lose the set.
In the decider, Errani capitalized on a backhand error from Pavlyuchenkova to break for a 2-1 lead. However, Pavlyuchenkova broke back in the sixth game when Errani's backhand sailed long.
Pavlyuchenkova has defeated three top 10 players in the same tournament for the first time in her career. She beat Maria Sharapova of Russia in the semifinals and Angelique Kerber of Germany in the quarterfinals.
Errani lost in the final of the Paris tournament for the second straight time.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DOHA, Qatar -- Seventh-seeded Simona Halep of Romania won her first title of the year with a 6-2, 6-3 victory over sixth-seeded Angelique Kerber of Germany in the Qatar Open final on Sunday.
It's the seventh career title for Halep, with the other six all won last year.
"I think it's the best, because it's the biggest tournament which I won," Halep said.
For the first time Halep defeated three top-10 players at the same event -- No. 7 Sara Errani in the quarterfinals, No. 4 Agnieszka Radwanska in the semifinals, and the ninth-ranked Kerber.
Halep, who had a first round bye, nearly lost her opening match of the tournament before defeating Kaia Kanepi in a third-set tiebreaker in the second round.
In the updated rankings, Halep will move from a current career-high 10th to ninth. Kerber will go from ninth to eighth.
Kerber was unable to break Halep's serve despite four break point opportunities in the match.
"It's tough to play against a player like Simona," Kerber said. "I was trying to play my game plan, but it was not easy ... she hit the balls very well and on the line."
Kerber dropped serve twice in the first set, including at love on a double fault in the first game.
Halep had to save two break points when serving for the set at 5-2. She ended up winning the game on Kerber's backhand error.
In the second set, Halep also broke serve twice -- in the fifth and ninth games.
"I just want to be focused for every point, to fight for every point," Halep said.
To add to Kerber's dismay she double-faulted on the final point of the 66-minute match.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
We are, as 21-time Grand Slam doubles champion Pam Shriver says, coming out of that "murky" phase of the tennis calendar.
"Everybody rushes to get ready for the Australian Open, and then there's quite the gap," the ESPN analyst said last week from her California home. "Let's face it, you don't have to be at your best until the end of May.
"Everybody's trying to get positioned. The top players aren't worried about rankings, but the rest of the women are. There's a lot of question marks out there. In the next month, order will be restored. When we're done with Indian Wells and Miami we'll have a better idea of who's going to be looking strongest at the end of 2014."
Justin Gimelstob, a Tennis Channel analyst, has been watching the smaller tournaments for the past month as part of the network's "Center Court" coverage.
"I enjoyed following the success of Simona Halep," Gimelstob said. "A new star, with an aggressive brand of tennis, is emerging. And Venus Williams played great in Dubai and looks to be back in the mix. She and Serena will be raring to go in Miami."
In the meantime, here are how the top eight are trending right now, with arrows indicating their up-or-down fortunes, heading into the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, which begins play this week. For a while, it looked like Serena Williams would be back after an absence of a dozen years. But ...


No. 1 Serena Williams
"It was a nice little fantasy for a week," Shriver said of Serena's coy gamesmanship. "But she's not playing." So, for the 13th straight year, Serena won't be at Indian Wells. She'll lose the chance to redeem her sketchy early season. It has been a relatively rough go for the 32-year-old, who has looked her age, losing in the fourth round of the Australian Open and then to Alize Cornet in the Dubai semifinal last week. Those defeats in two of the past four matches equal to her total last year between July and October. "When she hits her stride," Shriver said, "it will suddenly feel uncompetitive again. She'll have her ups and downs. Women's tennis will be bounced around for the next few years, domination by Serena and opportunities when she's not on top of her game."


No. 2 Li Na
One thing Shriver is interested in learning: "How is Li Na going to wear her second major? Tennis keeps getting older. Athletes have their best years as they get older. Serena has given the rest of the field hope that they can win multiple majors." Last week Li turned 32 -- the same age as Roger Federer. She opened the season by running the table in Shenzhen, China and Melbourne. A second-round loss in Doha (to qualifier Petra Cetkovska) means she's only 13-1 to start the season, the best record in women's tennis.


No. 3 Agnieszka Radwanska
As Gimelstob noted, "This is an important time in Radwanska's career." She has finished in the top eight for the past three years, but we're still waiting for the major breakthrough. She turns 25 this week, so this is as good a time as any. Radwanska is No. 3 right now, ahead of Victoria Azarenka and Maria Sharapova. She beat Azarenka in the quarters of the Aussie, but fell to Dominika Cibulkova in the semifinals. Then she made the semis at Doha (losing to Simona Halep) and fell in the first round at Dubai.


No. 4 Victoria Azarenka
See sentence No. 5 above. Azarenka lost the third set of their Australian Open quarters 6-0. This from the two-time defending champion and a player with a seven-win streak against Radwanska. Where does the 24-year-old go from here? History says she'll be fine; she has won Indian Wells (2012) and Miami (2011) in the past.


No. 5 Maria Sharapova
Born in Siberia, the local lady was everywhere at the Olympics in Sochi, Russia. She carried the torch (literally) and did some television work. Now the party's over and it's time to get back to work. What will we see from Sharapova in March? Better results than the first two months, when she lost to Serena in Brisbane, Cibulkova in Melbourne and Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, of all people, in Paris. Indian Wells is one of her favorite tournaments; she's the defending champion and also won in 2006.


No. 6 Angelique Kerber
The 26-year-old German has already won 16 matches this year and is coming off an appearance in the finals at Doha, where she lost to Simona Halep. She also reached the Sydney final, where she fell to Tsvetana Pironkova. Kerber likes the desert air of Indian Wells. She was a semifinalist last year, falling to Caroline Wozniacki.


No. 7 Simona Halep
She won six titles last year (in six finals appearances), the second-best total after Serena Williams. The 22-year-old Romanian has continued the momentum, winning at Doha with some wonderfully aggressive tennis. She also reached the Aussie quarters, losing there to Cibulkova. Halep seems poised to improve her recent results at Indian Wells, where she has won four matches over the past three years.


No. 8 Jelena Jankovic
After two seasons outside the top 10, Jankovic came back to finish a year-end No. 8. She has won 11 matches this year and has gone deep into tournaments. She was a semifinalist in Brisbane and Doha, losing there to Azarenka and Kerber. Jankovic, who turned 29 last week, was taken out in the fourth round at Melbourne by Halep. She won the title last year at Bogota, her first since ... Indian Wells in 2010.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- Seventh-seeded Donna Vekic of Croatia clinched her first WTA title on Sunday after beating top-seeded Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia 5-7, 7-5, 7-6 (4) in the Malaysian Open final.
The 17-year-old Vekic, playing in her third final, prevailed in a match that stretched to almost three hours.
Vekic, who fired 11 aces, failed to serve out the match when leading 5-2 in the third set but regained her rhythm in the tiebreaker.
Cibulkova, who reached the final of the Australian Open, had beaten Vekic in straight sets at Indian Wells last month in their only previous encounter.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Serena Williams' father says he won't return to Indian Wells, Calif., the site of a tournament she has skipped since 2001, when her family was booed and subjected to racial epithets, according to his new book.
"I would never go back," Richard Williams said in a telephone interview.
But he added that it's up to Serena whether she plays at Indian Wells again.
Serena was on the entry list for the event this year but withdrew, citing a back injury.
"She was taught to make terrific decisions," he said. "Any decision she makes, I would be behind, 1,000 percent."
His book, "Black and White: The Way I See It," comes out May 6. It goes into detail about how Indian Wells, in his words, "disgraced America."
The book covers plenty of other ground, although there is not much that is revelatory about the professional tennis careers of Serena and Venus Williams. He said he has another book in the works that's focused more on them.
Taught the game by their father, the sisters have won a combined 24 Grand Slam singles titles and have both been ranked No. 1.
"From the beginning, I decided that if people came to me later on and told me my daughters were great tennis players, I had failed," he writes. "Success would be if they came up to me and said my daughters were great people."
Written with Bart Davis, the 292-page "Black and White" reads as part autobiography, part parenting guide ("I feel that we're way too soft on our children," Williams says in Chapter 19), part self-help book and part tennis instructional manual.
"I released the book because Serena kept telling me to," Williams said. "She thought it would help a lot of people."
It is dedicated to his mother, and much of the early chapters concern lessons she imparted to him and her influence on his life -- and, by extension, his children's lives.
There are meditations on the American dream, ambition and, above all, racism. The latter is the prism through which Richard Williams learned to see the world and, as he repeatedly hammers home, still does to this day.
"If a person doesn't know where they started from, they sure as heck don't know where they're going," he said in the interview. "As they read, they can kind of relate more to who you are and where you're from and where you're going to."
In the book, Williams explains how his world view was shaped by growing up in Louisiana and during his time in Chicago as a young man.
There are tales of run-ins with the police and confrontations with strangers, often ending in violence.
"I could not embrace a turn-the-other-cheek philosophy," he writes.
At another point, he writes: "I became fascinated with stealing at the age of eight. I don't know if the thrill was being able to get away with a crime, or that the crime was against the white man. Either way, it was the start of a prosperous career."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
TOKYO -- Kei Nishikori became the first Japanese man to break into the top 10 of the world tennis rankings on Monday.
Nishikori, who is No. 9, was assured of a place in the top 10 after beating Feliciano Lopez 6-4, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the Madrid Open.
Granted, his spirit is sometimes more willing that his body, but Kei Nishikori is here to stay, writes Peter Bodo.
"It was a big goal for me to get top 10, but it's just only one week for now,'' Nishikori said on the ATP website. "So I have to keep playing better tennis and keep this ranking. My goal is not to get one time into the top 10. Hopefully I can keep this ranking.''
The 24-year-old Nishikori beat David Ferrer 7-6 (5), 5-7, 6-3 in the semifinals in Madrid before retiring from Sunday's final with a hip injury when trailing Rafael Nadal 2-6, 6-4, 3-0.
Nishikori, who went into the Madrid Open at No. 12, had previously reached a career-high of No. 11 in June 2013.
The Japanese player beat Santiago Giraldo 6-2, 6-2 to win the Barcelona Open on April 27 for his fifth career title and his second of the year.
Nishikori becomes the first Asian to rank inside the top 10 since Paradorn Srichaphan of Thailand did so on March 29, 2004.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tommy Haas needs a fourth operation on his right shoulder and will miss the rest of the tennis season.
The 20th-ranked German retired from his opening match at the French Open last month and withdrew from last week's Gerry Weber Open in Halle to assess the injury.
The 36-year-old player's management company said Monday that Haas has three damaged tendons in his right shoulder, which was operated on in 2002, 2003 and 2007.
Haas says "the diagnosis was a real shock" and surgery "can't be avoided because the injury is very serious."
Haas, once ranked No. 2 in the world, will undergo surgery Tuesday in New York.
He says he has no plans to retire and hopes for a comeback in 2015.
Haas says "I'm still totally convinced I've good matches and tournaments ahead of me."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Two-time major champion Li Na and coach Carlos Rodriguez are parting ways after nearly two years together.
Li's agent, Max Eisenbud, says Rodriguez is no longer able to travel on the tennis circuit. Instead, Rodriguez will spend more time at his tennis academy in Beijing.
In August 2012, Li hired Rodriguez, who used to coach seven-time Grand Slam title winner Justine Henin.
Rodriguez helped Li win this year's Australian Open, which she added to her championship at the 2011 French Open. She is the only tennis player from China to win a Grand Slam singles title.
Li lost in the first round at Roland Garros in May, and in the third round at Wimbledon last week.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Victoria Duval, who won her first career main-draw match at Wimbledon last week, revealed Friday she had been diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma after the first of three qualifying matches at Wimbledon.
"It is with a heavy heart that I will have to step away from tennis competition for a short period after being diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma," Duval said in a statement. "I received the news after my first round of qualifying at Wimbledon but decided to continue to compete. Being on court provided me with much comfort.
"I have complete faith that God will assist me and my family with all that we need, to achieve victory and become stronger from this journey. I intend to put up my best fight and have a full recovery. I picture myself healthy, stronger and competing again soon with even more appreciation for the game I so love. I am grateful in advance to my fans and friends for their support and positive thoughts while I will undergo my treatment and fight this battle."
The diagnosis came after a biopsy taken in England before the tournament, and further tests in the U.S. have confirmed the results, her representatives from IMG said in a statement.
Duval's big breakthrough came as a 17-year-old at last year's US Open, when she defeated former champion Samantha Stosur.
Hodgkin's is the most common form of cancer in adolescents, and, the statement said, the cancer was caught in its very early stages.
"Vicky will undergo treatment right away, and due to her overall good health and isolation of the cancer, the prognosis is a full recovery in a few months," the spokesman said.
Duval, 18, will miss the 2014 Mylan World TeamTennis season, and her team, the Philadelphia Freedoms, will wear patches with her initials in her honor.
"We are all supporting Vicky and her family at this difficult time," Freedoms owner Billie Jean King said. "Vicky is a fighter, and she will approach this new challenge with a plan and a conviction to win."
Duval was a 298th-ranked qualifier last fall when she defeated Stosur, the No. 11 seed and 2011 champion who had reached the quarterfinals in her previous three Open appearances. It was just the second Grand Slam match of Duval's career, and with the crowd rhythmically chanting "USA, USA," Duval defeated Stosur 5-7, 6-4, 6-4 in a two-hour, 39-minute match.
Duval's story has been well-documented. Her father Jean-Maurice was buried alive -- but survived -- in the 2010 earthquake in his native Haiti as he was helping run a medical clinic while Victoria played tennis in the U.S. When Duval was 7, she was held captive at gunpoint by robbers at her aunt's house in Port-au-Prince in Haiti and survived.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
BAD GASTEIN, Austria -- Andrea Petkovic took another step toward a return to the top 10 of the WTA rankings by winning her second title of the season at the Gastein Ladies on Sunday.
The 20th-ranked German, who played her first clay-court event since reaching the semifinals at last month's French Open, beat Shelby Rogers of the United States 6-3, 6-3 to follow up on her victory at Charleston in April.
"It's a super feeling, I am totally happy," said Petkovic, who reached a career-high ranking of No. 9 almost three years ago. "I want back into the top 10 and I am just playing good tennis. My serve and my footwork can still improve but I am playing well."
Petkovic also won the event in 2009 for her first of four career titles, which have all come on clay.
"I wanted this victory so badly," Petkovic said. "I am very relieved. Shelby played very aggressive tennis. I didn't know her game but I've done some research on YouTube."
Rogers, who came through qualifying and was ranked 147th, had not been beyond the second round of a WTA event before.
The 21-year-old American from Mount Pleasure, South Carolina, hadn't beaten a top-50 player before but defeated No. 16-ranked Carla Suarez Navarro, No. 40 Camila Giorgi and No. 14 Sara Errani all in straight sets this week before going down to Petkovic.
"I had an incredible time," said Rogers, who has won four events on the lower-tier ITF circuit. "This has definitely been a week I will never forget."
Rogers broke Petkovic's serve for an early 2-1 lead but the German immediately leveled the score. At 3-3, Petkovic took six straight games to win the opener and build a 3-0 lead in the second.
Rogers closed the gap to 3-2 and then broke her opponent again when Petkovic was serving for the match at 5-2, but netted a backhand in the next game on the German player's first match point.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MASON, Ohio -- Roger Federer won an unprecedented sixth championship in Cincinnati, overcoming one bad set. Serena Williams dominated for her first title.
So here we are again, one week from the US Open and old reliables Roger Federer and Serena Williams look like they might add to their already robust résumés.
Federer extended his record of finals perfection in Cincinnati, beating David Ferrer 6-3, 1-6, 6-2 in the Western & Southern Open on Sunday. He's won all six times he's reached the tournament's title match.
The latest came against an opponent he has dominated throughout his career. Federer improved to 16-0 against Ferrer, who has won only five sets off him overall.
It ended a bit of a slump for Federer, who finally got the large winner's trophy after losing his last four Masters title matches. He was the runner-up to Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in Toronto a week earlier.
"I've been bringing home some smaller ones," Federer said. "I'm happy to get the big one."
Earlier on Sunday, Williams finally got the one that had always slipped away. And she did it so convincingly that she came away thinking another title could be coming soon.
Williams needed only 62 minutes to beat Ana Ivanovic 6-4, 6-1 for a personal breakthrough. She'd never even reached the finals in Cincinnati until last year, when she fell apart and lost to Victoria Azarenka on a third-set tiebreaker.
No wobbles this time. After getting broken in the first game, she took control with her serve and took advantage of Ivanovic's sloppy play, improving to 5-0 in finals this year.
"Definitely my best performance of the summer," she said. "Hopefully not the last.
"This is definitely a level that can take me to the (U.S. Open) title. I still have a lot of work to do. It's definitely a better level than I've played all year, to be honest."
Ivanovic was treated for a stomach ailment during her nearly 3-hour win over Maria Sharapova in the semifinals Saturday night. She didn't have much left against Williams, who dominated with her serve.
Williams had 12 aces.
"Only?" Ivanovic said. "It felt like way more."
The only other event that Williams has played six times without a title is Sydney. She finally got her win in Cincinnati with the help of a good matchup. Williams is 7-1 in her career against Ivanovic, with the only loss coming at the Australian Open this year.
Although their last three matches have been close -- all going three sets -- this one was one-sided after the first few games.
"I felt like she was dominating," Ivanovic said.
Williams developed a stiff back that limited her serve in the semifinals Saturday night. She moved stiffly at the start Sunday, double-faulted in the first game and was broken -- an ominous sign. But she started moving better and took control with her serve, pulling even at 3-3. She clinched the set when Ivanovic double-faulted twice in a row.
The back problem came into play in the second set. Williams winced after a serve in the opening game and arched her back. She stretched her back a few times between points and played through it. And Ivanovic couldn't take advantage.
"I felt it a little bit in the second, but I just was so excited for this final and to be in the final," she said. "I just really felt like I had nothing to lose. So I was able to relax."
Despite the loss, Ivanovic will move back into the top 10 in the WTA rankings with her strong showing in Cincinnati.
"It's the biggest final I've been in in a while. It feels good to be part of it," she said. "There are still a few points in my game that I feel I need to work on for the U.S. Open and also for the end of season. Definitely exciting times."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LOS ANGELES -- Vic Braden, a tennis player in the late 1940s and early '50s who became one of the nation's top tennis teaching professionals, has died from complications of congestive heart failure. He was 85.
Braden died Monday at his home in the Orange County city of Trabuco Canyon, according to his wife, Melody Braden.
He began playing tennis in grade school in his hometown of Monroe, Michigan. In high school, he won the Class A state singles title in 1946 and '47.
Braden was a 1951 graduate of Kalamazoo College in Michigan, where he was captain of the tennis team and later inducted into the school's athletic hall of fame. Standing just 5-foot-6, he was one of the top players on teams that won the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association championships in each of his four years.
Braden turned pro after college at a time when there were only a few professional tournaments. He eventually joined Jack Kramer on Kramer's fledgling pro tour. Among those Braden played with were Jimmy Evert, the father of Hall of Famer Chris Evert, and George Richey, the father of future pros Cliff and Nancy Richey.
"Rest in Peace, Vic Braden.," Chris Evert wrote on her Twitter account. "Innovative, cutting edge kind of guy. Will miss his enthusiasm and knowledge of the game. He'll be greatly missed."
Braden and Kramer later co-founded the Jack Kramer Club in Rolling Hills Estates, California, where future Hall of Famer Tracy Austin learned to play tennis as a child.
"So sad to hear of the passing of tennis coach Vic Braden, a pioneer, innovator, & true legend in our sport!" Austin tweeted.
In 1971, Braden opened the Vic Braden Tennis College in Coto de Caza, California, an instructional facility for tennis players of every range of ability, from beginners to pros. The college has other locations in Kissimmee, Florida, and St. George, Utah.
Braden became known for his innovative teaching methods, and his application of technology to the basics of tennis instruction. He wrote several books and articles on tennis instruction. He was a licensed psychologist in California.
"Tennis has lost a treasure," Billie Jean King wrote on Twitter. "he was always on the cutting edge of science in tennis & is an all-time great in our industry."
Besides his wife of 43 years, Braden is survived by children Kory Braden-Hittelman, Kristen Paul, Troy Davis and Shawn Davis, and four grandchildren. His daughter, Kelly, died 12 years ago from complications of lupus.
"Vic always had a smile on his face. He was a very, very happy person," Melody Braden said Tuesday. "That happiness and caring and love just emanated from his body."
Melody Braden said her husband's body was donated to the University of California, Irvine, for research purposes.
A memorial service will be held later.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SINGAPORE -- Serena Williams says comments by the head of the Russian Tennis Federation referring to her and older sister Venus as "brothers" were bullying, sexist and racist, and that she supported the one-year suspension imposed by the WTA against the official.
Shamil Tarpischev was also fined $25,000 for making the comments on Russian television. He said the sisters were "scary" to look at.
"I think the WTA did a great job of taking [the] initiative and taking immediate action to his comments," Williams said Sunday in Singapore ahead of her WTA Finals defense. "I thought they were very insensitive and extremely sexist as well as racist at the same time. I thought they were in a way bullying."
Asked whether he regretted his comments, Tarpischev told The Associated Press on Saturday at the Kremlin Cup that the program on which he spoke was "a humorous show." When asked about his ban, Tarpischev said: "I can't comment. I don't understand it."
In a statement released later by the Russian Tennis Federation, Tarpischev denied any "malicious intent" and said his quotes had been taken out of context.
The WTA said it would seek his removal as chairman of the Kremlin Cup tournament, which ends Sunday.
Russia's Maria Sharapova, also in Singapore for the WTA Finals, condemned her compatriot's comments.
"I think they were very disrespectful and uncalled for, and I'm glad that many people have stood up, including the WTA. It was very inappropriate, especially in his position and all the responsibilities that he has not just in sport, but being part of the Olympic committee," she said.
Tarpischev has been chairman of the Kremlin Cup, Russia's only WTA event, for all of its 18 years as a women's tour event, and is also a member of the International Olympic Committee. During the 1990s, he was the personal tennis coach to Russian president Boris Yeltsin and served as his adviser on sports matters.
He made his comments during an appearance on a Russian talk show this month alongside former Olympic singles champion Elena Dementieva. When Dementieva was asked what it was like playing against the Williams sisters, Tarpischev interjected and called them the "Williams brothers." He also said that "it's scary when you really look at them."
Williams, the world number 1 at the age of 33, is going into the WTA Finals on the back of another stellar year, winning six titles including the US Open. But she pulled out of the China Open earlier this month with a knee injury, triggering some concerns she might not make the Singapore event.
The draw for the year-end competition -- starting Monday at the 10,000-capacity Singapore Indoor Stadium -- puts Williams in the Red Group with 23-year-old Simona Halep and 20-year-old Eugenie Bouchard as well as the more experienced Ana Ivanovic, the only one of her three opponents ever to beat her.
Williams said doctors only allowed her to start hitting the ball in practice again last week.
"They thought it was very bad for me to hit sooner than that," she said. "After that, I just, like I said, started training. I was surprised at how well I was able to kind of jump back into it."
The White Group sees second-seeded Sharapova, the French Open champion, joined by Wimbledon winner Petra Kvitova, Caroline Wozniacki and Agnieszka Radwanska.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SINGAPORE -- In their last match together, Cara Black and Sania Mirza cruised to the doubles title at the WTA Finals with an authoritative 6-1, 6-0 win over defending champions Peng Shuai and Hsieh Su-Wei on Sunday.
For Black, it was the third time she had won the doubles crown at the WTA Finals after 2007 and 2008 partnering with Liezl Huber, while for Mirza it was her first victory at the season-ending championships.
It was a surprisingly one-sided final, given Peng and Hsieh entered the match with a 12-0 record in doubles finals, including this year's French Open and Wimbledon in 2013, while Black and Mirza had a tough road to the final.
The Zimbabwe-India pairing saved one set point in their quarterfinal victory and staged a remarkable comeback in the semifinal against Kveta Peschke and Katarina Srebotnik, coming from 9-6 down in the super tiebreak to win it, saving three match points.
"After we won that first match, we thought maybe that's a sign, maybe we're going to win it," Mirza said.
The 35-year-old Black, who has won five doubles titles and five mixed doubles titles in Grand Slams, is unsure of whether she will continue on next year, so Mirza has agreed to a partnership with Hsieh for the 2015 season.
"I'm not sure what I'm going to do next year, how much I'm going to play," Black said. "I just want to wind down a little bit and see where the next step takes me."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Roger Federer accepts the Stefan Edberg sportsmanship award for the 10th time. (1:20)
LONDON -- Roger Federer, Andy Murray and the Bryan brothers are among the winners of the ATP World Tour Awards.
Federer was selected by his peers as winner of the Stefan Edberg sportsmanship award for a 10th time.
Murray received the Arthur Ashe humanitarian award for his involvement in fundraising exhibitions and campaigns.
Bob and Mike Bryan take the doubles award for a sixth straight year.
Also, 17-year-old Borna Coric of Croatia gets the Star of Tomorrow award as the youngest player ranked in the top 100, Roberto Bautista Agut of Spain was selected the most improved player, and David Goffin of Belgium the comeback player of the year.
The battle for the year-end No. 1 ranking will be decided between Federer and Novak Djokovic at the ATP World Tour Finals starting on Sunday in London.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MONTPELLIER, France -- The ATP says it is looking at the circumstances of a Tunisian tennis player's retirement from a match after winning the first set in a French tournament Wednesday, citing an injury that keeps him from facing an Israeli in the next round.
Malek Jaziri quit after winning the first set 6-3 against sixth-seeded Denis Istomin of Uzbekistan in the first round of the Open Sud de France.
Tournament organizers said in an email to The Associated Press that Jaziri, who called for a trainer twice during the match, "suffered again from an elbow injury he picked up" at the Australian Open.
Had Jaziri beaten Istomin, he would have played Israel's Dudi Sela in the next round. In 2013, Tunisia's tennis federation ordered Jaziri to withdraw from a match against an Israeli opponent at a second-tier tournament in Uzbekistan. Jaziri had been scheduled to play Israel's Amir Weintraub in the quarterfinals of the ATP Challenger tournament in Tashkent. He withdrew before the match.
The ITF subsequently banned Tunisia from the 2014 Davis Cup, saying that the Tunisian federation was guilty of "interfering with international sporting practice."
The ATP confirmed that Jaziri's latest retirement was due to an elbow injury, "as verified by the ATP physiotherapist on-site," but started to examine the case.
"Given a previous incident involving the player's national federation in 2013, we are looking into any wider circumstances of his withdrawal as a matter of prudence," the ATP said in a statement to the AP.
The 65th-ranked Jaziri, who lost in the third round at the Australian Open, also withdrew from doubles, where he would have faced an Israeli opponent. He and Spanish partner Marc Lopez had been set to play Jonathan Erlich of Israel and Cermak Frantisek of the Czech Republic in the quarterfinals.
The Tunisian tennis federation did not reply to emails and phone calls seeking comment.
Arab countries have for decades observed, to varying degrees, boycotts against Israeli athletes in protest over the situation of the Palestinians.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -- Top-seeded Simona Halep earned her second title of the year by beating 17th-seeded Karolina Pliskova 6-4, 7-6 (4) in the Dubai Championships final on Saturday.
Halep benefited from a large contingent of Romanian compatriots, who constantly cheered "Si-mon-a" from the stands.
"It's really nice to hear your name during the changeover," Halep said. "It's amazing that they can come to support me. I see the love, you know."
Halep also won in Shenzhen, China, last month, and this marked her second Premier 5 title, the highest level of WTA events after the Grand Slams. The previous was the Qatar Open a year ago.
Pliskova was playing this week at a career-high ranking of No. 18. Next week the Czech will move up to No. 12.
"I still can't imagine myself, I'm 12 in the ranking," Pliskova said. "I just hope I'm going to start to feel like I belong there."
Despite the loss, Pliskova added five aces to her yearly tally. She has a tour-leading 149 in a tour-leading 22 matches.
Pliskova surrendered her serve in the seventh game of the first set at love to give Halep the needed advantage for the set.
The Czech, who started the second set with a 2-0 lead, took an off-court medical timeout for a left hip issue after losing the advantage.
In all, there were eight service breaks leading into the second-set tiebreaker.
"I was just tying to do my best, and trying to stay in the second set," Pliskova said. "My serve, I wouldn't say it wasn't good, but she's just great returning."
In the second set, Halep served for the match twice, failing to take advantage of a match point in the 10th and 12th games.
"I did two double faults at 6-5, I don't know how," Halep said. "But in the tiebreak I was strong, and I was fighting till the end."
At 4-4 in the tiebreaker, Halep won the final three points of the match. She took her third match point with a forehand winner into an open court.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Andy Murray will return to his native Scotland next week to lead Britain against the United States in the first round of the Davis Cup.
Murray and his brother, Jamie, on Tuesday were named to the team that will face the Americans on March 6-8 on an indoor hard court at the Emirates Arena in Glasgow.
James Ward and Dominic Inglot round out the team named by captain Leon Smith.
U.S. captain Jim Courier named a team that featured John Isner and Donald Young in singles and brothers Bob and Mike Bryan in doubles.
The third-ranked Murray returns to play in Scotland for the first time since winning Wimbledon in 2013.
Murray led Britain to a 3-1 win over the U.S. in the first round last year in San Diego.
Murray could team up in doubles against the Bryan brothers with his own brother, who returns to Davis Cup play for the first time since 2011.
The Bryan brothers, the world's top-ranked doubles pair, are 22-4 together in Davis Cup play.
The 20th-ranked Isner will be competing in his 10th Davis Cup tie. He was chosen for last year's matches against Britain but was replaced by Young after spraining his right ankle.
The 45th-ranked Young, who will be making his second appearance in the Davis Cup, lost to Murray in last year's singles.
The U.S. leads 11-8 overall against Britain in the oldest rivalry in Davis Cup history, dating to the first competition in 1900.
The winner in Glasgow will advance to the quarterfinals against either France or Germany.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DOHA, Qatar --  Victoria Azarenka defeated Venus Williams for the first time on Friday, rallying for a 2-6, 6-2, 6-4 victory to reach the final at the Qatar Open.
A two-time champion in Doha, Azarenka made adjustments in the second set and took a 5-1 lead in the third. Azarenka had 36 winners in a match watched by David Beckham.
"Venus was kicking my butt left and right, and I didn't know what to do. In the second set, I took control," said Azarenka, who won the event in 2012 and 2013 but withdrew last year because of a foot injury.
Williams entered the match with a 4-0 record against the Belarusian, who reached her first final in more than a year.
"From 5-1, she really went for her shots, she was really aggressive," Azarenka said of Williams. "So I just wanted to stay composed."
The 48th-ranked Azarenka will face No. 15 Lucie Safarova in the final on Saturday. She's undefeated in six matches against the Czech player, who beat Carla Suarez Navarro 6-3, 6-2 in the other semifinal.
Safarova needed only 77 minutes to stop Suarez Navarro, who committed 21 unforced errors.
"I worked really hard in the offseason and my level has been going up, so I'm enjoying playing," said Safarova, who has won all three matches against Suarez Navarro.
In the first set, the 2014 Wimbledon semifinalist broke Suarez Navarro's serve in the second game. Although Safarova dropped her serve in the seventh game, she broke back in the next game. In the second set, she excelled with her powerful ground strokes.
Safarova said her game plan was to "play aggressive and take her time away because she's very good in defense. And she can also, from her backhand side, play very strong. So I was trying to push more through the forehand."
Azarenka aims to become the first player to win three titles in Doha. Russians Maria Sharapova (2005, 2008) and Anastasia Myskina (2003, 2004) have won it twice.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DOHA, Qatar -- Fed Cup winner Lucie Safarova beat Victoria Azarenka in straight sets, 6-4, 6-3 to clinch the Qatar Open on Saturday.
It was her sixth career title and first since Quebec City in 2013 as well as her first at the Premier-level.
Former world No. 1 Victoria Azarenka is playing well again, as we saw in her run to the Qatar Open final.
The Czech snapped Azarenka's 14-match winning streak in Doha and also foiled the Belarusian's attempt to clinch a record third Qatar Open title.
"It's an amazing feeling. I'm really excited and I've been working towards this for a long time. I'm happy at the way season has progressed," said Safarova, who along with Bethanie Mattek-Sands had won their first grand slam doubles titles at the Australian Open last month.
Contesting their first final of the season, Safarova broke Azarenka in the very first game and asserted her supremacy gradually. Though Azarenka broke back in the sixth game, Safarova returned the compliment again in the ninth and held her serve in the next to take the first set.
The plot was no different in the second set in which Safarova broke Azarenka twice-in the third and the ninth games, firing seven aces in the match including three-in-a-row to seal the contest.
Having lost all her six previous encounters to Azarenka, the Wimbledon semifinalist Safarova, raised her game to a new level at the Khalifa Tennis Complex in the match which lasted one hour and twenty seven minutes.
"I mean, it's up there. Obviously semifinals at Wimbledon was a very high achievement for me as well. It's the first premier WTA win of a tournament, so I'm really excited. I think it's like I'm playing more consistent.
"My game improved a lot throughout the last couple of years. It took me quite a few years to get to this point. I hope it's not a finish point and I can still improve that," added Safarova, who will move four places up to 11 when the latest WTA rankings are released on Monday.
For Azarenka, who was playing her first final since the 2014 Brisbane, where she lost to Serena Williams, it was more heartbreak, in a match in which she committed 21 unforced errors.
"There's been a lot of progress this week, a lot of good things happened, a lot of great matches. I was looking as many matches in a row to try to get used to that. And I had a lot of great things actually this week that I can take and still keep working. I'm still really motivated," said Azarenka.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Clearly, the momentum of skipping Madrid did not hurt Novak Djokovic. He rolled into Rome and -- voila! -- came away with another title.
While the Serb was the star of the weekend, more went down, as our tennis staff notes.
Leonardo Ayala, ESPN Deportes: As the countdown to the French Open winds down with a qualifying tournament and Friday's draw for the main competition, South American tennis will once again miss the countryman who last took home a Grand Slam: Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina will likely be absent for the third year in succession. (It should become official when Roland Garros organizers announce the list of players with direct access to the main draw; but just like in 2013 and 2014, del Potro is set to miss the second Grand Slam of the year.)
Fellow countryman Leonardo Mayer and Uruguay's Pablo Cuevas will enter the draw as seeds, but even on a surface (clay) where they feel the most comfortable, making it into the second week should be a realistic goal for both. They are not title contenders as an in-form del Potro would be; he made it to the semifinals in 2009 and quarterfinals in 2012, only to lose both matches in five sets to Roger Federer. The Swiss would eventually move on to win the title in 2009, but Delpo took sweet revenge later that year by defeating Federer, also in five sets, in the US Open final.
A few months ago, del Potro anticipated he would use his protected ranking this year at Roland Garros. Almost a full year into his recovery from left wrist surgery, 2015 started slowly for del Potro. He pulled out of the Aussie Open at the last minute, instead booking a new appointment with a surgeon. Fast forward to Miami in March, when he lost in the first round but, even worse, felt pain again and decided to head back to Buenos Aires to rest and start from scratch.
The situation did not get any better in the past few weeks: Del Potro still feels pain while training, so a return to the slow courts of Paris, where points last longer than on faster surfaces, wouldn't have been a wise decision.
Tristan Barclay, ESPN UK: It has been almost a year since Andy Murray became the only leading male player to appoint a female head coach. His relationship with former world No. 1 Amelie Mauresmo is proving to be a fruitful one, as evidenced by Murray's back-to-back clay-court successes in Munich and Monte Carlo before he pulled out of Rome, citing fatigue.
Before Mauresmo, the British No. 1 was under the tutelage of an altogether sterner character, Ivan Lendl. Those were days of hard graft and competitiveness in the Murray camp. That style of management also brought with it a huge amount of success, capped by Murray's 2013 Wimbledon triumph, which ended British tennis fans' 77-year wait for a home champion.
A couple of years older, and with the no-nonsense Lendl gone, Murray has admitted to enjoying Mauresmo's more deliberative approach. He says he appreciates being able to "open up" to the Frenchwoman and says she listens to him better than the Czech ever did. That makes his French Open prospects good, but this summer will be a tricky one.
Murray expects Roland Garros to be the last tournament he will play with Mauresmo as his coach for some time. She is due to give birth in August, and her replacement in Team Murray will be Jonas Bjorkman. The Swede joined Murray's camp in the build-up to last month's Munich Open and is booked in through the US Open in September. His task will be to ensure a smooth transition from the Mauresmo method, to maintain the light-touch approach that allows Murray to focus on the practice court. Any deviation from that path could undo a year's worth of good work.
Carl Bialik, FiveThirtyEight.com:
The Bryan brothers could win their third French Open doubles title -- or they could lose in the first round. After an up-and-down start to the year for Bob and Mike, neither outcome in Paris would be surprising. The twins, who turned 37 last month, have won three titles this year, including Masters events in Miami and Monte Carlo.
Wherever they haven't lifted the trophy, though, they've struggled, losing in all seven other events by the quarterfinals, five times in straight sets. Their loss in Rome was their second straight opening-match, straight-sets loss. Doubles' sped-up scoring makes every match something of a crapshoot, but the Bryans have maintained their No. 1 ranking by remaining remarkably consistent despite no-ad points and third-set super-tiebreakers.
They lost before the semis just seven times last year, and only four times the year before. The Bryans nonetheless remain comfortably co-ranked at No. 1. But if they do lose early again in Paris, they could fall further behind in the race for year-end No. 1, behind the Italian duo of Simone Bolelli and Fabio Fognini, among the favorites at the French Open.
How are the Bryans responding to the slump? According to Twitter, they're training more on clay -- at, of all places, the All England Club.
Peter Bodo, ESPN.com: Carla Suarez Navarro did not win the Italian Open on Sunday. She took the first set from Maria Sharapova but slowly ran out of steam. Sharapova, who at 6-foot-2 is 10 inches taller than Suarez Navarro, asserted her superior strength and fitness and went on to claim the 35th WTA title of her career. That's 34 titles more than Suarez Navarro, the champion at Oeiras in 2014, has salted away.
Suarez Navarro is 0-3 in finals this year (she was also a finalist in Antwerp and Miami); but she has more tour-level wins than anyone else (31) and her ranking has risen to No. 8, thanks to this most recent final. Before the Italian Open, she was 0-9 against No. 1 or 2 players, but she broke that hex on Saturday with a gritty three-set win against Simona Halep.
Unfortunately, the win was costly. Suarez Navarro had to battle for 2½ hours to earn it, then bounce back the following day to meet one of the fiercest of competitors in the final. Suarez's chances began to fade as soon as she went a break down after winning that first set from Sharapova.
It's hard not to smile when you see that Suarez Navarro has won a match. She has perpetually slumped shoulders, a pigeon-toed gait, and then there are those outfits. (Someone should tell the Canary Islander that cool as it is to emulate Johnny Cash, black absorbs heat and thus many not be a good choice on hot days.) But she's got great timing, reflexes and all-around mobility -- along with wonderful touch and a terrific tennis IQ. She's worked her way up to a high level. Let's hope she has continued success -- and wins another title or two.
Greg Garber, ESPN.com: That wasn't Rafa in Rome. It must have been an impostor who lost in straight sets against Stan Wawrinka in the quarterfinals. With his historic success on clay and a reservoir of confidence, the Nadal we know and love wouldn't have contrived to lose the first set -- after leading the tiebreaker 6-2.
That's right, Wawrinka survived four set points. And the real Rafael Nadal would never have made what sounded suspiciously like an excuse afterward. The "night ball is bigger," the man posing as Rafa said. "He has the chance to go for it."
Wawrinka, amazingly, was 1-12 against Nadal going into Rome. And then there was this: "I am ready to accept the challenge," Nadal supposedly said. "If go to Roland Garros [and] lose [and] I don't play well, life continues. It's not the end of the world. It's normal that I can lose. Losing is part of my life."
Matt Wilansky, ESPN.com: Novak Djokovic is so unbeatable these days that the only player who has a shot at taking him down is Djokovic himself. That is the Djokovic of 2011.
The world's top player is having the finest season of anyone on the ATP Tour since he started 2011 at 37-0 with seven titles. This season, Djokovic is 35-2 with five titles.
The latest iteration of Djokovic is serving bigger (5.3 aces per match) compared to his rate four years ago (2.0), but he is down to 44 percent in converting break points. In 2011, he was successful on exactly half his break chances.
But it should be noted that Djokovic is riding a 37-match winning streak at the tour's highest-level events (Masters, Slams and the ATP World Tour Final) and is 14-1 in his past 15 matches versus top-10 players.
Djokovic, though, doesn't want to repeat 2011. He didn't lose a match until the semifinals of the French Open, the one Slam he has yet to win.
After winning Rome, Djokovic told reporters, "I have been very close to that title before, played several finals. I just need to continue preparing myself for that event as I prepare for any other, try to keep the routine going and hope it will take me where I want to be."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MIAMI -- Tennis great Doris Hart, who won each Grand Slam tournament at least once, and once won three Wimbledon titles in a single day, has died.
Hart died Friday at home at the age of 89, the International Tennis Hall of Fame confirmed to The Associated Press, citing close personal friends of Hart's.
Hart was known for her smarts, crisp groundstrokes and drop shot mastery. She won titles in 1954-55 at the U.S. Championships, which later became the U.S. Open.
She won the French Open twice and Wimbledon and the Australian Open once each. She also totaled 29 major doubles titles and ranked No. 1 in the world in 1951.
That year, Hart had her finest tournament at Wimbledon, when she won three titles. She defeated friend Shirley Fry in singles before they joined forces to win women's doubles. She then teamed with Frank Sedgman to win mixed doubles.
All three matches were on the same day because of rain delays.
"That I think is unique in itself," said 86-year-old friend Jacqueline Mulloy, who met Hart 12 years ago through husband and former tennis player Gardnar Mulloy. "I think she should be remembered as a unique and wonderful player. She had plenty of guts."
Donna Fales, 74, an accomplished amateur tennis player, said she met Hart after moving to Florida in 1969.
"She is someone I looked up to," said Fales, 74. "She was a great champion and great competitor with great integrity; a wonderful representative of the sport."
Hart was in the world Top 10 for a decade starting in 1946. She retired in 1955 and was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1969.
Success didn't come without adversity.
Hart suffered an infection as a child that was serious enough for doctors to consider amputating her right leg. However, she started playing tennis at 6 and won 35 professional titles.
"Everybody thought she had polio, because she was a little bowlegged," Fry told The Associated Press in 2004. "For her to do what she did was special because she couldn't run as well as other people. And yet she had the smarts."
Hart was born June 20, 1925, in St. Louis and grew up in Coral Gables. She attended the University of Miami, a few miles from where she lived in recent years.
As a player, her best weapon was the drop shot, which she practiced endlessly as a youngster. She would hit it even from behind the baseline, floating winners just over the net.
"I'd be criticized," she told The Associated Press in 2004. "I can remember losing matches, and people would come up to me and say, `Girl, do you know how many times you missed that drop shot? If you hadn't done that, blah blah blah.' And I'd say, `Thank you.' But I knew I had to do it. That's what would win for me."
After she retired, she worked as a teaching pro for 28 years at a club in Pompano Beach, but neck trouble forced her to give up tennis in 1993.
Later in life, she shunned the pro tennis scene, though she did watch matches on television. She never married. In January 2010, she told the AP that she had lost most of her vision.
In 2004, watching the U.S. Open in her apartment, Hart cringed at Serena Williams' clothing ensemble, marveled at the smooth shot-making of Roger Federer and said she disliked the way most players try to hit everything so hard.
"There's really not much strategy involved," she says. "It's not that appealing to watch, I don't think."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEWPORT, R.I. -- Amelie Mauresmo is slated to experience two very memorable moments in just a few short weeks.
She was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame on Saturday but was unable to travel to the ceremony because she is expecting her first child in early August.
Joining the 36-year-old Frenchwoman were David Hall of Australia, a six-time Paralympic medalist, and Nancy Jeffett, elected in the contributor category.
"Amelie will be here next year, but we want to celebrate her this year," 1987 Hall of Famer Stan Smith told the crowd.
Mauresmo, who is now Andy Murray's coach, won the Australian Open and Wimbledon in 2006 and spent 39 weeks at No. 1 in the WTA rankings. She won 25 singles titles and was a silver medalist at the 2004 Athens Olympics.
Under mostly cloudy skies on Newport's grass courts, Mauresmo was enshrined during a 75-minute ceremony that included a presentation of a gold Hall of Fame ring to Billie Jean King.
"This is wonderful to be here to share this moment with all of you," said King, inducted in 1987.
Jeffett, 87, was honored for her 50 years in the sport. She was presented by 2002 Hall of Famer Pam Shriver.
"This has been a real love of the game that has brought me to this moment," Jeffett said in a short speech.
When he was 16, Hall was struck by a car and had to have both legs amputated. He is the fourth wheelchair player to be inducted.
"Through the early days after my accident, tennis was like a long lost friend that would come back to me," the 45-year-old said.
Marion Bartoli, the 2013 Wimbledon champion, also attended the ceremony that was held before the semifinal matches of the Hall of Fame Tennis Championships.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Serena Williams got her name on the Rookwood trophy for the second time Sunday, beating Simona Halep 6-3, 7-6 (5) to claim back-to-back Cincinnati titles.
Serena Williams and Roger Federer both won impressively Sunday in Cincinnati, but their mindsets heading into the US Open couldn't be more different.
Williams heads into the US Open trying to become the first player since Steffi Graf in 1988 to pull off a calendar Grand Slam sweep.
"I'm ready," Williams said. "I don't care if I win or lose or break even. I'm ready to start it, get it over with and be done and go on to the next event. But I'm so ready for New York."
Halep was the runner-up at Toronto a week earlier and was hoping to beat Williams for the second time in less than a year after upsetting her at the WTA Finals in October. Halep broke Williams' serve to open the match but couldn't sustain it.
Williams won four of the last six points in the tiebreaker, winning the match when Halep sliced a backhand shot into the net.
Then the talk about the Grand Slam began.
"I know you can do four," Halep told Williams during the trophy presentation.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Hollywood loves to make movies about boxing, so much so that a seventh "Rocky" movie is coming out in November. Seriously, a seventh "Rocky" movie. This one is about Rocky training Apollo Creed's son. Well, at least he's not training Ivan Drago's son.
There also have been a large number of well-received baseball movies, as well as some football, basketball, soccer, golf and hockey flicks.
But tennis movies? Ummm, not so much.
There have been some tennis movies, but nothing nearly as memorable or good as "Bull Durham,'' "The Natural,'' "Hoosiers'' or "Slap Shot.'' And certainly no major box-office hits (and that's not likely to happen unless Katniss Everdeen replaces her bow with a racket in the new "Hunger Games" installment).
There is one recent movie -- "Break Point,'' starring Jeremy Sisto, David Walton and J.K. Simmons. It's a comedy about two estranged brothers in their 30s who get back together to play doubles and try to qualify for a fictional Grand Slam. The movie isn't bad (though, the tennis isn't particularly good), and there are a couple of funny moments, often involving the crude ,older, semi-alcoholic brother, who wears even uglier shorts than Stan Wawrinka.
Still, it was made available on video prior to a very limited theatrical release last month, which is another example of tennis' lack of box-office power. A tennis film is lucky to take in as much money as Tim Smyczek did this year. Which is kind of odd given that it is a global sport and successful movies these days have broad appeal to international crowds. Perhaps Serena Williams should join the Avengers.
Which isn't to say that tennis hasn't had a presence on the big screen. Here are some moments and movies that have caught my eye on the big screen:
"Pat and Mike": This 1952 movie starring Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy might have the best tennis scene you'll see outside of a documentary on Roger Federer. Hepburn's character, Pat Pemberton, is a top tennis player (and golfer) who plays mixed doubles with Don Budge in one scene. (I can't wait for a movie with Jennifer Lawrence playing mixed doubles with Novak Djokovic.)
The important scene, though, is Hepburn singles match against Gussie Moran in which the sudden presence of Pemberton's fiancé in the stands makes her feel so much pressure she quickly blows a 6-3, 3-2 lead in amusing fashion. After double-faulting several times, Hepburn pictures her racket to be the size of a pingpong paddle. She also imagines the net rising higher and higher whenever she returns.
Hepburn does not play at a level that would challenge Serena, but she actually displays pretty good form. And in one ever-so-brief shot, Moran is asked to twirl her skirt for photographers, just as Williams and Eugenie Bouchard were asked inappropriately to do at the Australian Open this year. There was no such issue for Hepburn. Always portraying powerful women, she wears shorts rather a skirt in the match.
(Unfortunately, to see this match, you will have to buy the video because there is online link.)
"The Royal Tenenbaums": In this 2001 comedy, Richie Tenenbaum (Luke Wilson) is a former tennis prodigy who dresses like Bjorn Borg (retro headband, Fila logo shirt) and whose career tanks from depression over his adopted sister (Gwyneth Paltrow) marrying another man (Bill Murray). Yeah, it's an odd plot line but, hey, it's a Wes Anderson movie. Tenenbaum's meltdown on court -- 72 unforced errors, underhand serves, removal of his shoes and a complete bagel -- is even more amazing than Serena's at her 2014 Wimbledon doubles match.
"Strangers on a Train": This is an Alfred Hitchcock thriller in which a tennis player named Guy (Farley Granger) meets a psychotic passenger named Bruno (Robert Walker) while traveling on, well, a train. Bruno suggests they murder each other's troublesome relatives -- Guy's wife and the psycho's father -- so that neither would be considered a suspect. Guy doesn't realize Bruno is serious until he kills Guy's wife. No, it's not a rom-com.
There is a match scene intercut with Bruno attempting to get a cigarette lighter out of a storm drain. A shorter but more entertaining court scene is when we see everyone in the crowd turning their heads to follow each shot, except for the psycho, whose focus remains relentlessly set on Guy, sort of like the media on Serena during the recent US Open.
"Match Point": Aside from the title and the lead character's background as a former tennis player turned instructor, this Woody Allen non-com doesn't have a lot of tennis in it. But it's a gripping, well-done movie (with a young Scarlett Johansson) in which the former tennis player winds up committing murder to hide an affair. In other words, he should have met up with Bruno on a train.
By the way, in his classic "Annie Hall," Woody Allen meets Diane Keaton while playing tennis.
"The Bachelor Party": OK, it's not the best movie Tom Hanks has ever made (oddly, he did not get an Oscar nomination), and it doesn't have anything to do with tennis, but there is this brief and funny scene in which the future Jimmy Dugan shows his baseball prowess on the hard court.
"Wimbledon": In this 2004 tennis rom-com, Kirsten Dunst is a rising American star who meets an aging English player (Paul Bettany) at Wimbledon and the two quickly fall for each other. Let's just say that Dunst's form would not have been good enough to beat Helen Wills Moody, even though Wills Moody had been dead for six years when the movie came out. Bettany, meanwhile, spends more time diving to the ground than a major league shortstop.
It's a mediocre movie, but there is one memorable line when Dunst is yelling at Bettany for distracting her from her game: "Love means nothing in tennis. Zero.'' Oh, and -- spoiler alert -- Bettany retires after winning the Wimbledon final. (Perhaps Flavia Pennetta and Marion Bartoli really liked the movie.) Bettany's agent, Jon Favreau, also has his cell phone ring in the middle of a match, which happened to me during a Lindsay Davenport quarterfinal at Wimbledon the year after "Wimbledon" was released. But maybe the movie scene would have been more amusing if Favreau's ring tone had been "Holly Jolly Christmas," as mine was.
"Seven Days in Hell": Not a theatrical movie, but worth mentioning. This recent HBO mockumentary tells the fictional story of a tennis match at Wimbledon that lasts an entire week. No, John Isner is not in it, but John McEnroe, Chris Evert and Serena are, as are comic actors Andy Samberg, Fred Armisen and Will Forte. There are some funny scenes, but it tends to go a little overboard in the sexual crudity department. In other words, don't watch it with your children. Or your parents.
I didn't see the movies, but ESPN tennis writer Peter Bodo and others  recommend the mimes-playing tennis scene in Antonioni's "Blow Up'' along with the scene with Jack Nicholson, Michelle Pfeiffer, Susan Sarandon and Cher playing in "The Witches of Eastwick." But I think it might be better to watch "Rocky'' again.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEWPORT, R.I. -- Justine Henin and Marat Safin are nominees for the International Tennis Hall of Fame for careers in which each won multiple Grand Slam titles and reached No. 1 in the rankings.
Others eligible for the Class of 2016 are doubles specialist Helena Sukova, Yvon Petra and Margaret Scriven.
The hall announced the nominees Friday. The induction is in July.
Henin, a Belgian, won seven major singles championships, including four at the French Open, and spent 117 weeks atop the WTA rankings, finishing at No. 1 in 2003, 2006 and 2007.
Safin, a Russian, won the 2000 U.S. Open and 2005 Australian Open and was No. 1 for nine weeks.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ESPN tennis analyst Brad Gilbert explains why Roger Federer replaced coach Stefan Edberg with Ivan Ljubicic. (3:13)
After two years of working together, Roger Federer has parted ways with coach Stefan Edberg, who will be replaced by former world No. 3 Ivan Ljubicic.
Federer began his partnership with Edberg in 2014, and since then, the Swiss star has won 11 titles but failed to add to his record 17 Grand Slam championships.
"After 2 very successful years, I would like to thank Stefan Edberg, my childhood idol, for agreeing to join my team," Federer wrote Tuesday on his Facebook page. "It was a dream come true. Although it was supposed to only be for 2014, Stefan was great and agreed to extend the partnership through this year which I really appreciated. He taught me so much and his influence on my game will remain. He will always be a part of my team."
Federer said Severin Luthi, with whom he has worked since 2008, will stay on as his main coach, along with Ljubicic and his longtime physiotherapist and fitness trainer.
In 2015, Federer strung together arguably his best season since his dominant 2004-07 reign. He won six titles, including the Western & Southern Open, a Masters 1000 event in Cincinnati. He reached the Wimbledon and US Open finals and lost to world No. 1 Novak Djokovic in both events.
Stefan Edberg's successor, Ivan Ljubicic, has been a players' leader and once fled the Balkan Wars on a cargo plane, but what will he offer friend Roger Federer as his new coach?
Federer made a concerted effort to play high-octane offense this past season, highlighted by his renewed serve-and-volley game and now-famous SABR (sneak attack by Roger) return tactic. Many in the game attributed the shift in Federer's play to Edberg, one of the all-time great net players.
Edberg, a six-time Grand Slam winner, released a statement to ATPWorldTour.com: "Roger and I had a wonderful two years together. When he originally approached me at the end of 2013, I committed to work with him for only a year. It became very clear from the start that this was going to be a special partnership, working with the greatest ambassador tennis has ever seen. It was exciting for me to be back out on tour and to see that the sport has made so much progress.
"The quality of tennis today is stronger than it has ever been. After an amazing 2014, I decided to continue on for another year, but with a clear understanding that it would be my last year, given the time commitment. I believe Roger still has a lot left to give to the sport of tennis and is capable of winning the big events."
Federer will make his 2016 debut at the Brisbane International, which begins Jan. 3.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MELBOURNE -- Back in 2007, someone tried to offer Novak Djokovic roughly $200,000 to lose a first-round match at a tournament in St. Petersburg, Russia, he said Monday at the Australian Open.
Djokovic said he wasn't approached directly. Instead, "I was approached through people that were working with me at that time," he said, making clear that the offer was flat-out rejected. He didn't even attend the tournament, but he said he still didn't like the fact that someone even bothered to consider him for such a thing.
"It made me feel terrible because I don't want to be anyhow linked to this kind of -- you know, somebody may call it an opportunity," he said. "For me, that's an act of unsportsmanship, a crime in sport honestly. I don't support it. I think there is no room for it in any sport, especially in tennis."
A number of players reacted to the BuzzFeed/BBC report that says there has been widespread match-fixing in men's tennis and that authorities in the sport ignored it. The report did not name players because a direct link to betting could not be proved, but it said there is a core group of 16 suspected men who have been ranked in the top 50, including a US Open champion, involved.
"I would love to hear names," Roger Federer said. "Then at least it's concrete stuff and you can actually debate about it. Was it the player? Was it the support team? Who was it? Was it before? Was it a doubles player, a singles player? Which slam? It's so all over the place. It's nonsense to answer something that is pure speculation. Like I said, it's super serious and it's super important to maintain the integrity of our sport. So how high up does it go?"
While Federer questioned how many new developments were in the story -- much of it is about the 2007 match scandal involving Nikolay Davydenko and Martin Vassallo Arguello -- he said he hopes this will put more pressure on the governing bodies to take such things seriously. "Hopefully there's more funding to it," he said. "Same as doping. Yes, absolutely, got to be super aggressive in both areas."
Djokovic said there were rumors of match-fixing in the past and that they were dealt with but that he hasn't heard of anything in the past six or seven years. Serena Williams said she wasn't aware of any match-fixing incidents, either.
Stories, analysis and reaction to tennis match-fixing reports that surfaced on the eve of the 2016 Australian Open.
Background on the Tennis Integrity Unit, its anti-corruption program and its response to allegations it suppressed evidence of offenses.
"I can only answer for me. I play very hard, and every player I play seems to play hard," she said. "I think that as an athlete, I do everything I can to be not only great, but historic. If that's going on, I don't know about it. You know, I'm kind of sometimes in a little bit of a bubble."
Federer said if he heard someone was offered money to fix matches, he would encourage him to go to the tennis authorities. If the player did not, he would.
"He needs to feel he's been supported by the tour, or whatever the governing body is, that there's a place he can go and speak about it," he said. "It's uncomfortable, not a fun thing. It's not like, 'Oh, I've just been approached, it's all cool,' and we don't talk about it. I think it's really important that you get supported and get also told how to manage that.
"So, yes, I guess I would encourage that person to go and say something. Otherwise, I would say something or I would encourage us to go together."
Another issue to this story is that the Australian Open has a sponsorship deal with the William Hill gambling company, and there is advertising signage for the company at Melbourne Park. Some wonder how is it proper to take money from a gambling company and encourage fans to bet if the sport truly wants to keep players from fixing matches.
"This is a subject for discussion, I think, today and in the future," Djokovic said. "It's a fine line. Honestly, it's on a borderline, I would say. Whether you want to have betting companies involved in the big tournaments in our sport or not, it's hard to say what's right and what's wrong."
Federer said that in some way the sponsorships are connected and other ways they are not.
"Betting happens all across the world in all the sports," he said. "The players just need to know, we need to make sure the integrity of the game is always maintained because without that, why do you come and watch this match tonight or any match? Because you just don't know the outcome. As long as we don't know the outcome, the players, fans, it's going to be exciting. The moment that gets taken away, there's no point anymore to be in the stadium."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MOSCOW -- Maria Sharapova was passed over for the singles and is scheduled to play doubles for Russia against the Netherlands in their Fed Cup first-round tie starting Saturday.
Sharapova was warned last week by Russian tennis chief Shamil Tarpischev that she must play in the tie if she wants to compete in the Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro this year. After losing to Serena Williams in the Australian Open quarterfinals, Sharapova said she would join the Russia team in Moscow but rest a left forearm injury.
But she was picked Friday to play in the doubles, which ends the tie on Sunday. Svetlana Kuznetsova and Ekaterina Makarova were picked to play the singles.
Makarova will open against Kiki Bertens followed by Kuznetsova against Richel Hogenkamp on a hard court in the Olympic Stadium.
After the reverse singles on Sunday, Sharapova is teamed with 18-year-old debutant Darya Kasatkina to face Cindy Burger and Arantxa Rus.
To compete in the Olympics, tennis players must play for their country three times in the preceding four years. Sharapova appeared twice for Russia last year, including winning both of her singles in the final loss to the Czech Republic.
Russia, a four-time Fed Cup champion, is bidding to reach the semifinals for the 12th time in 14 years.
The Netherlands is hoping to extend its seven-tie winning streak after returning to the World Group for the first time since 1998.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -- Fifth-seeded Belinda Bencic of Switzerland, playing her first week as a top 10 player, was upset 4-6, 7-5, 6-4 by Jelena Jankovic of Serbia in the Dubai Tennis Championships on Tuesday.
The ninth-ranked Bencic, 18, who reached last weekend's final in St. Petersburg, Russia, looked physically exhausted by the end of the 2 hour, 31 minute match against the 20th-ranked Jankovic.
"It wasn't easy being in St. Petersburg over the weekend and then in Dubai since yesterday, but that's part of being a professional tennis player and it's something that we all have to cope with," Bencic said.
"Of course I am disappointed to have lost, but it's a long season and I need to turn my focus to the next tournament."
Seventh-seeded Roberta Vinci of Italy, who won the St. Petersburg tournament, also made an early exit on Tuesday, falling to Kazakh qualifier Yaroslava Shvedova 6-0, 4-6, 6-3.
Four of the eight seeds have lost in the first round -- Bencic, Vinci, Karolina Pliskova and Svetlana Kuznetsova.
In the 12th game of the second set, Bencic smacked a backhand crosscourt wide on a sixth set point in the game for Jankovic.
By the third set, Bencic was visibly struggling, although she managed to save seven overall break points against her serve in the sixth and eighth games.
In the final game of the match, Bencic netted a backhand at 15-40 to end the contest.
"I'm just getting my rhythm and kind of basically starting the season," Jankovic said. "You know, I just fought hard. I was hanging in there every point."
In earlier matches, Anna Ivanovic of Serbia and Elina Svitolina of Ukraine advanced to the second round.
Ivanovic swept past Daria Gavrilova 6-1, 6-0, while the 21st-ranked Elina Svitolina advanced with a 6-3, 6-1 win against Slovakian qualifier Jana Cepelova.
The 17th-ranked Ivanovic came to Dubai after having reached the semifinals in St. Petersburg, where she lost to Vinci.
Ivanovic will play defending champion and top-seeded Simona Halep in the second round.
"You want to play against the best, and next match is going to be a tough one for me," Ivanovic said. "Simona is a very tough, consistent player. She strikes the ball well. She moves well. So it's going to be a good challenge."
Svitolina's match was her first to be played with coaching consultant Justine Henin, a seven-time Grand Slam champion, in attendance.
"It's great to have Justine in my team, and I worked with her in offseason for a little bit, and now she's going to join us for some tournaments," Svitolina said. "I'm looking forward to hard work. We are trying to do something new (to) refresh my game."
Svitolina plays second-seeded Garbine Muguruza of Spain in the second round.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Indian Wells CEO Raymond Moore said women players ride the coattails of the men in comments before Serena Williams met Victoria Azarenka in the finals of the BNP Paribas Open on Sunday. He apologized later, but not before Williams had a chance to react.
"I think the WTA [Women's Tennis Association] ... You know, in my next life, when I come back, I want to be someone in the WTA because they ride on the coattails of the men," Moore said, according to multiple reports. "They don't make any decisions, and they are lucky. They are very, very lucky. If I was a lady player, I'd go down every night on my knees and thank God that Roger Federer and Rafa Nadal were born because they have carried this sport. They really have."
Moore, 69, is a former professional player from South Africa who took over as CEO of Indian Wells Tennis Garden in 2012, after being associated with the event for decades.
Williams was asked about Moore's comments in her postmatch news conference.
"Obviously, I don't think any woman should be down on their knees thanking anybody like that," she said. "I think Venus [Williams], myself, a number of players have been -- if I could tell you every day how many people say they don't watch tennis unless they're watching myself or my sister, I couldn't even bring up that number. So I don't think that is a very accurate statement. I think there is a lot of women out there who are more ... are very exciting to watch. I think there are a lot of men out there who are exciting to watch. I think it definitely goes both ways. I think those remarks are very much mistaken and very, very, very inaccurate."
Williams was asked if Moore's comments could have been misconstrued.
"Well, if you read the transcript, you can only interpret it one way. I speak very good English. I'm sure he does too," she said. "You know, there's only one way to interpret that. Get on your knees, which is offensive enough, and thank a man, which is not -- we, as women, have come a long way. We shouldn't have to drop to our knees at any point."
Williams said she was surprised to hear sexist remarks such as Moore's these days.
"Yeah, I'm still surprised, especially with me and Venus and all the other women on the tour that's done well," she said. "Last year, the women's final at the US Open sold out well before the men. I'm sorry, did Roger play in that final or Rafa or any man play in that final that was sold out before the men's final? I think not.
"So I just feel like, in order to make a comment, you have to have history, and you have to have facts, and you have to know things. You have to know of everything. I mean, you look at someone like Billie Jean King, who opened so many doors for not only women's players but women's athletes in general. So I feel like, you know, that is such a disservice to her and every female -- not only a female athlete but every woman on this planet -- that has ever tried to stand up for what they believed in and being proud to be a woman."
King later responded to Moore's comments on Twitter:
Disappointed in #RaymondMoore comments. He is wrong on so many levels. Every player, especially the top players, contribute to our success
Former player and current ESPN analyst Pam Shriver said it was a "sad irony [that] these comments were made on a day we should have been celebrating Serena getting back to a final and all the forgiveness and recovery made after all that happened 15 years ago."
Talking about the state of women's tennis, Moore said Williams is "arguably the best female player of all time." He also said, "I think the WTA have a handful -- not just one or two -- but they have a handful of very attractive prospects that can assume the mantle. You know, [Garbine Muguruza], Genie Bouchard. They have a lot of very attractive players. And the standard in ladies' tennis has improved unbelievably."
Asked to clarify if he was talking about physical attractiveness or competitive attractiveness, Moore responded, "I mean both. They are physically attractive and competitively attractive. They can assume the mantle of leadership once Serena decides to stop. I think they've got ... they really have quite a few very, very attractive players."
Steve Simon, Moore's longtime colleague at Indian Wells and predecessor as tournament director, became the WTA's CEO last fall.
Serena Williams said it best: No matter the apology, there is no room to misinterpret the words of Indian Wells tournament CEO Ray Moore. And he is wrong, espnW's Jane McManus writes.
Victoria Azarenka and Serena Williams showed us why we don't need to waste any more energy on Raymond Moore and his sexist comments.
"As the Tournament Director of one of the pre-eminent events in professional tennis, the comments made today by Raymond Moore were extremely disappointing and alarming," Simon said in a statement. "The WTA stands on its own and was founded on the principles of equality and empowerment. I am proud of all the strong athletes on the WTA who put in hard work and sacrifice every single day.
"Tennis as a whole is enriched by the contributions and accomplishments of every player, both female and male."
Moore later apologized in a written statement.
"At my morning breakfast with the media, I made comments about the WTA that were in extremely poor taste and erroneous," he said. "I am truly sorry for those remarks and apologize to all the players and WTA as a whole. We had a women's final today that reflects the strength of the players, especially Serena and Victoria, and the entire WTA. Again, I am truly sorry for my remarks."
Azarenka defeated Williams 6-4, 6-4 for the women's title. Afterward, she was asked if Moore's apology was disingenuous, given the nature of his comments.
"I'm trying not to think about it. ... I'm not going to bring somebody down. I'm just going to rise above that," Azarenka said. "Today, I think it was a great match. It was a great day for women's sport.
"Why can't we just be happy and enjoy and support each other? Because that's what the world is missing a little bit. It's the support toward each other. Not just bashing and, oh, who is prettier or who is this, who has more, who has less. Let's just take care of each other."
Azarenka said such criticism of women remains an issue in the world, including in the fields of sports and business.
"What women do best is rise above those comments. You don't hear complaints or bad comments towards men," she said. "If we rise above that and keep working hard in everything we do, we're better. We're better at taking opportunities and being graceful. It's our duty to keep just working hard through whatever comments there is."
Last year at Wimbledon, Azarenka spoke out about the apparent double standard in tennis when it comes to grunting during matches. She pointed out that while female players are routinely peppered with questions about their on-court noises, that's not the case for their male counterparts, who grunt just as much.
When asked Sunday about those comments and whether she has embraced being a leader for women as she has gotten older, Azarenka said, "I believe in giving back to a sport that gave me so much. I'm very passionate. I see how hard it is to make something out of yourself and stand your ground, so I believe that it's my duty for players maybe after me or during this time to really have this respect for our sport."
Asked about Moore's comments, top-ranked Novak Djokovic, who defeated Milos Raonic 6-2, 6-0 in the men's final, said, "We have to be fair to say that it's not politically correct."
Djokovic was coached by a woman early in his career, and he noted that women pros often delay or sacrifice having families to play professionally, a dilemma men don't face.
"I have tremendous respect for what women in global sport are doing and achieving," he said. "I'm completely for women power."
Two WNBA stars, Swin Cash and Tina Charles, also denounced Moore's comments.
"It's extremely disappointing hearing Indian Wells CEO Raymond Moore's comments and knowing sentiments like this are still voiced in 2016. As we approach our 20th year of the [New York] Liberty, we are asking everyone to support women everywhere, not tear them down," Cash and Charles said in a joint statement. "We stand with our fellow athletes of the Women's Tennis Association, and we invite Raymond Moore and the other 'Raymond Moores of the world' to re-evaluate their stereotypes and biases. In the meantime, we'll continue to be leaders on and off of the court."
Information from ESPN's Jim Caple and The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Note: This column was published before Novak Djokovic issued a statement about Sunday's comments.
Novak Djokovic misstepped badly Sunday when he piggybacked off some sexist remarks by Raymond Moore, the disgraced CEO of the BNP Paribas Open, and used the opportunity to reopen the decades-old debate about equal prize money in tennis. Djokovic entered long-settled territory that not even Moore, misguided as he is, strayed into during his ramblings about how "lady" tennis players are "riding the coattails" of the men's tour and should "get down on their knees at night" and "give thanks."
Victoria Azarenka and Serena Williams showed us why we don't need to waste any more energy on Raymond Moore and his sexist comments.
Serena Williams said it best: No matter the apology, there is no room to misinterpret the words of Indian Wells tournament CEO Ray Moore. And he is wrong, espnW's Jane McManus writes.
But what's registered even louder since Djokovic and Moore made their statements just hours apart is Moore apologized later the same evening and resigned under fire by Monday night. Yet by midday Tuesday, Djokovic -- the world's No. 1 player -- hadn't amended or taken back a word he said.
That's a problem. So is the disappointing lack of blowback from Djokovic's male peers.
Djokovic's patronizing remarks about women's hormones and his contention that equal pay should again be on the table "because the stats are showing that we have much more spectators on the men's tennis matches" were, in their own way, just as retrograde as the 69-year-old Moore's descent into old tropes of discussing the physical attractiveness of the younger women's players coming up behind Serena Williams, or saying Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer have been doing the really important work of making the entire sport go. It's all thanks to men, men, men, men, men.
The BNP Paribas Open, which is held in Indian Wells, California, is one of the biggest joint ATP-WTA events outside the Grand Slam tournaments. Williams, speaking after her finals loss to Victoria Azarenka on Sunday but before Djokovic dismissed Milos Raonic in the men's final, expressed shock that Moore would make such comments six months after the women's final at the US Open, spurred by the buzz over her possible Grand Slam sweep, sold out before the men's for the first time in tournament history.
"I'm sorry, did Roger play in that final?" Williams asked. "Or Rafa, or any man play in that final that was sold out before the men's final? I think not."
Like Moore, Djokovic needs a history lesson and some diversity training.
It's been one thing in recent years to hear an inconsequential career hothead like Latvia's Ernests Gulbis (a self-described "idiot") say women's tennis players should concentrate more on having children, or to hear Gilles Simon, a far more established player, gripe about equal prize money shortly after he was elected to the ATP Player Council in 2012.
But Djokovic is the top-ranked player in the men's game. He's an 11-time major title winner who is still given an outside chance of overtaking Federer as Best Ever. He usually shows a keen awareness of world events and the responsibilities that come with such a high station inside tennis.
When you're the face and voice of a sport, your words carry extra weight.
Until Djokovic explains otherwise, the men's side of tennis is apparently led right now by a man who sees nothing wrong with turning back the clock to arguments that were first harpooned four decades ago.
"I think that our men's tennis world, ATP world, should fight for more because the stats are showing that we have much more spectators on the men's tennis matches," Djokovic said. "I think that's one of the, you know, reasons why maybe we should get awarded more. Women should fight for what they think they deserve and we should fight for what we think we deserve.
"I think as long as it's like that and there is data and stats available and information, upon who attracts more attention, spectators, who sells more tickets and stuff like that, in relation to that it has to be fairly distributed."
If Djokovic doesn't know it, someone should tell him the details about how equal pay debate has been around tennis dating back to when Billie Jean King and a handful of others founded the Women's Tennis Association in the early 1970s. Back then, the most prominent tournament director insulting women's players was named Jack Kramer, not Raymond Moore, and King was hurt when even male players who were close friends of hers scoffed and told her things like, "No one is going to ever pay to watch you birds play." Even the great Arthur Ashe, despite all the ways he's been knighted since, was an early opponent of equal pay.
The contours of the debate have barely changed since King's day and shouldn't be reopened now. As Martina Hingis has pointed out, there have been eras where the women's game was more popular and eras where the men's game has been more popular. It's cyclical.
The oft-revived argument that men deserve more because they play best-of-five matches at the Grand Slams while women play best-of-three? That was long ago debunked by King, too. She was the first athlete to argue a notion that's commonplace today: Athletes are entertainers, said King, and as such, their pay isn't determined by how many hours they punch the clock, but the value they deliver to spectators that choose to come see them.
"I thought we settled that issue years ago," Martina Navratilova said after Djokovic spoke.
That doesn't stop people like Djokovic or Simon from occasionally bringing it up.
Djokovic should know better. His disclaimer Sunday that he's all for "women's power" wasn't persuasive proof of his gender enlightenment either. Not after he launched into a related riff about how some of his best friends happen to be women, he likes women, and, hey, in case anyone forgot, "I am married to a woman." Then he expressed his deep admiration for how women athletes "fight" in the face of the unspeakable biological challenges they face.
"You know, the hormones and different stuff -- we don't need to go into details," Djokovic said. "Ladies know what I'm talking about."
Huh? The hormones nugget was especially humorous coming from someone on the male side of the sport, where players have lost the plot dating back to Ilie Nastase and Jimmy Connors and no one accused them of having too much estrogen.
Many of them have actually profited nicely from acting deranged.
Most of the time, Djokovic is a treasure to his sport. The next time he opens his mouth, let's hope he says he has some regrets about his Indian Wells remarks.
Rather than crib talking points from the likes of Raymond Moore, he should consider echoing something King said in 2014, when the equal-pay debate also flared up: "Sports are a microcosm of society, so it teaches you how the world still perceives gender inequality," King said. "It's not fun. It's really sad, actually. ... Just the way the culture is set up, the way we're brainwashed.
"I would hope," King added, "that since we're in this world together, men and women, that we would champion each other more."
And then? "Then we would all win," King said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Retired doubles champion Bob Hewitt has been expelled from the International Tennis Hall of Fame because of a 2015 conviction for rape and sexual assault in South Africa.
Hewitt was inducted into the Newport, Rhode Island, Hall of Fame in 1992 but was suspended in 2012, and his plaque and all mentions of him were removed.
Hewitt was accused of assaulting girls he coached during the 1980s and 1990s when they were minors. The allegations came to light in 2011.
In March 2015, Judge Bert Bam sentenced Hewitt to eight years in jail for two counts of rape, with two years suspended. He also sentenced Hewitt to two years in prison for a third charge of sexual assault.
Bam said the three sentences would be served at the same time, meaning Hewitt, 76, was to spend up to six years in prison.
The Hall of Fame said it expelled Hewitt after the appellate courts denied all of his appeals.
The judge also ordered Hewitt to pay about $8,500 to state-run campaigns against sexual violence. The Australian-born Hewitt denied the charges.
Hewitt won each of the Grand Slam doubles titles during his career -- the men's and mixed doubles at Wimbledon, the US Open, the Australian Open and the French Open. He also helped lead South Africa to its only Davis Cup win in 1974.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
With Monte Carlo and Charleston behind us, we have learned a lot about the current state of the game.
And that state is one of confusion. World No. 1 Novak Djokovic fell early and the struggling Rafael Nadal won a significant title, while the women's tour presented some unlikely success stories (hello, Sloane Stephens).
Granted, the meat of the clay season is approaching, with Madrid commencing on May 2 and Rome a week later. But for now, here are the hot-button issues we attempt to tackle in another edition of Baseline Buzz.
Greg Garber, ESPN.com: True. For a couple years now, I've been touting Novak Djokovic to win his first French Open -- only to see him (and me) disappointed. I know Rafa has one more French in him, but as he nears the daunting age of 30, this is his last shot.
Melissa Isaacson, ESPN.com: False. Can't go there just yet. Yes, Nadal is returning to form in a way most would not have predicted, but since his 2014 French title (his last major), consider that Djokovic has won five majors and 10 tournament titles. For the first time in a long time, there's real hope of that rivalry reviving, but Djokovic has won 10 of their past 11 head-to-heads, and if they meet in the French, I still like Djokovic.
Peter Bodo, ESPN.com: False. I don't believe Rafa has another French Open title in him, mainly because of the same factors that enabled him to be such a great champion there. Although he still has a great game for clay, I don't see the same degree of intensity or even hunger. He used to live to struggle, now he struggles to live.
Pam Shriver, ESPN analyst: False, but I do think he will win a 10th Roland Garros at some point. But I am still not sold he's recovered enough from his loss of confidence to win it all this year.
Garber: False. If that means winning the French, I say no. The way the season has gone down -- with Azarenka dominant, Serena Williams vulnerable and Angelique Kerber viable -- it just feels like the French will go to a surprise winner. Can you say Anastasia Myskina?
Isaacson: True. Love Azarenka's game when it's on, which it sure seems to be for the first time with any consistency since 2013. Surging back into the top five after those two titles, she remains superb on the return, is always aggressive and has a killer instinct that could be the best in the game.
Bodo: True. Azarenka has always been a better clay-court player than she gets credit for. She also seems to have gone through a difficult time in various ways and now seems utterly refocused. Among likely entrants, only Serena Williams is in the same league with Vika as fierce mental warriors. It's a two-woman race.
Shriver: False. If continuing where she left off strictly means winning titles, then no, because clay is not her best surface, and it's impossible to win every week. But I do think she has a good a chance as anyone to be the next player with a No. 1 ranking by her name.
Garber: True, but to a point. Hard to imagine him continuing his Masters dominance through 2016. (He won six titles a year ago.) Last year, he destroyed Rafa in the French quarters. Maybe it's payback time.
Isaacson: False. Though if human is making four finals this year in six tournaments, it ain't so bad. Granted, he has been in the news more this year for his comments on cheating, doping and equal pay than for his tennis. And he did lose in the second round at Monte Carlo. But it was only his second loss in 30 matches this year -- his other coming via an injury retirement in Dubai. So merely human? Not so fast.
Bodo: True, for now. This spring for Djokovic will be all about the French Open. Everything he does will be geared toward winning that title, so don't be surprised -- or alarmed -- if he drops a match or two along the way. In the back of his mind, all of this will be prep for Paris, and if he wins there, nothing that happened in the preceding month will matter.
Shriver: True. Clay and the French Open have been his Achilles' heel. He has a lot more of a mental battle than he does on other surfaces as he prepares for the red clay and the two-week grind in Paris.
Garber: False. She may well win one of the run-ups to Roland Garros. Just not sure she has the nerve(s) to bring home the trophy again in Paris.
Isaacson: True. She has not won a tournament since last August in Cincinnati, and she lost to Svetlana Kuznetsova in the fourth round of the Miami Open late last month, which snapped Serena's 20-match winning streak there. But when she left, she was clearly angry, and an angry Serena is generally a dangerous one.
Bodo: False. I don't know if she can turn her game around, but I know she can't turn her age (34) around, and that may be a problem. People tend to forget that the older you are when you lose that edge, the more precipitously you're likely to drop. But then Serena has made a living shattering the conventional wisdom, so who knows?
Shriver: False. Her serving problems and serving inconsistency will continue. She hasn't entered the clay-court season without having a title in hand since 2012. She has a lot of confidence-building to do before she feels comfortable again, especially in later rounds.
Garber: True. I remember my first glimpse of Le Monf on the grounds of Roland Garros when he was a junior. He was mesmerizing; still is. A threat, yes. He might go deep and upset some players, but I can't see him winning the thing.
Isaacson: True. A threat? Always, particularly in his homeland. Consistent? Not always. But after making the quarters in Melbourne, Indian Wells and Miami, and the finals in Rotterdam and Monte Carlo, he is a legit threat at Roland Garros.
Bodo: False. Given what a great athlete he is, Monfils seems to have a serious fitness -- or perhaps just a lack of stamina -- problem. The guy looks gassed halfway through three-set matches. Sure, some of that is for dramatic effect, but his anti-Ironman persona will prevent him for winning a best-of-five tournament on clay.
Shiver: False. The French players always have an added burden, especially at Roland Garros. I still don't trust Monfils as a seven-match, two-week, grind-it-out competitor.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
You are a 22-year-old qualifier coming off your exhilarating first ATP World Tour-level victory, against No. 48-ranked Teymuraz Gabashvili of Russia. And now, in a rush of adrenaline and emotion, you have just won six of eight games in the desert at Indian Wells and taken the first set from world No. 1 Novak Djokovic.
How do you process that? You don't.
"I really wasn't thinking at all," Bjorn Fratangelo told ESPN.com on Wednesday. "I was just trying to block out any thoughts in my head, good or bad. I had a game point for three-all but couldn't convert.
"I learned a lot about myself from playing with him. Finding that confidence was huge for me. It's been a bit of my downfall, questioning my ability. Everybody's always told me I have the game to succeed at this level. At times, I really didn't believe that. Now I do, and it feels good."
After a trying end to the 2015 season -- struggling with fatigue, injury and a death in the family -- Fratangelo, in a back-to-the-future piece of symmetry, finds himself headed back to Paris, the scene of his greatest title.
Truly out of nowhere, he won the 2011 boys' junior tournament at Roland Garros. After five years of searching for himself, Fratangelo will return as a main-draw player.
Bjorn Fratangelo, who in 2011 became the first American since John McEnroe in 1977 to win the French Open boys' singles title, has earned a wild-card entry for the main draw at Roland Garros.
He won the 2016 USTA Pro Circuit Roland Garros Wild Card Challenge on Tuesday when Jared Donaldson lost his first-round match at the Tallahassee Tennis Challenger. Fratangelo accumulated the most points in the Challenger events in Savannah, Georgia, and in Sarasota and Tallahassee, Florida.
The women's wild card will be determined next week at an event in Indian Harbour Beach, Florida.
"It's unreal to be in the tournament, which obviously I have so many great memories from juniors," Fratangelo said. "It will always be a special place for me. Earning the wild card, not just having it thrown at me, makes it even better. Hopefully, I can make good use of it."
This will be his third straight appearance in a major main draw. He lost to No. 6-ranked Tomas Berdych in the first round of last year's US Open and, as a lucky loser in qualifying, fell to Stephane Robert of France earlier this year in Melbourne.
The win on the fabled red clay in Paris, as an unseeded 17-year-old, was a signature moment. But it came with some unforeseen baggage.
"I don't think I was ready for the amount of attention I received for that," Fratangelo explained. "I was always a good junior in the United States, but not a standout guy. To have all the eyes on a kid that was from as small suburb in Pittsburgh, thinking about going to college, took a lot of time to adjust.
"You learn and grow," Fratangelo said. "It was part of my journey. At 22, I'm way more mature about things.
"I'd like to think I'm very professional now with my career. I try to do everything, on and off the court, to maximize things. When I was young, I didn't do that as well. There's much more to the game than how you hit the ball."
He's now working with coach Brad Stine, who helped shape Jim Courier and Mardy Fish, among others, and is based at the USTA Professional Development facility in Boca Raton, Florida. Fratangelo started slowly this year, falling in the final round of qualifying in ATP events in Memphis and Delray Beach, but won the Challenger in Savannah, beating Frances Tiafoe -- the winner of last year's French wild card -- in the quarterfinals, Denis Kudla in the semifinals and Donaldson in the final.
Kudla, at No. 61, is one of eight Americans ranked among the ATP's top 100 players. Fratangelo is ninth-highest-ranked American, at No. 117 -- and rising toward his career-high of No. 106, achieved last summer. His immediate goal is to break into the top 100 in time to make the main draw at Wimbledon.
While that might put some pressure on Fratangelo, his long-term expectations are quite a bit higher -- if we're analyzing his first name. Is it a tribute to a certain 11-time Grand Slam champion from Sweden?
"Um, yes," Fratangelo said. "My dad, Mario, was a big fan of [Bjorn] Borg. He played growing up, and Borg was his idol. He met him at a senior event and they chatted. He and my mom decided to give me the name -- God knows why."
Fratangelo might have groaned at that point.
"It's a good first paragraph for you journalists."
Or a last paragraph.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Novak Djokovic is proud of his French Open win and thrilled to have achieved a career Grand Slam, but this accomplishment has humbled him, and he says he is truly "honored" to be listed among the tennis greats. (2:02)
PARIS -- A French Open champion at long last, and the first man in nearly a half-century to win four consecutive major championships, Novak Djokovic grabbed a racket and etched a heart in the very red clay that had given him such heartache in the past.
Then, when he finally was handed the La Coupe des Mousquetaires -- the one trophy he truly yearned for, the one he needed in order to complete his career Grand Slam -- Djokovic held it overhead, his eyes shut, before kissing it, exhaling and smiling broadly.
Finally, Novak Djokovic can call himself a French Open champion. And soon enough, he might just be calling himself the all-time Slam king.
It took time -- a lot of it. But Novak Djokovic can now call himself a first-time French Open winner and esteemed member of the career Grand Slam club.
There are few honors in tennis greater than being a member of the career Grand Slam club. Here's a look at Novak Djokovic and the other seven players.
In his 12th appearance at Roland Garros, and fourth final, the top-seeded Djokovic earned that elusive title, casting aside a shaky opening set to dominate the rest of the way in a 3-6, 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 victory over No. 2 Andy Murray on Sunday, buoyed by a supportive crowd that repeatedly chanted his nickname, "No-le!"
"It's really a very special moment," Djokovic said, "perhaps the greatest moment of my career."
Since losing the 2015 final in Paris, Djokovic has won 28 Grand Slam matches in a row, from Wimbledon and the US Open last year, to the Australian Open in January, and now, at long last, the French.
The last man to hold all four major titles simultaneously was Rod Laver in 1969, when he earned a calendar-year Grand Slam. Djokovic now can set his sights on that ultimate tennis achievement, because he is halfway there.
"This is something that is so rare in tennis," said Murray, who is now 2-8 in Grand Slam finals. "It's going to take a long time for it to happen again."
The 29-year-old Djokovic also owns six Grand Slam titles from the Australian Open, three from Wimbledon and two from the US Open, giving him a total of 12. Among men, only Roger Federer (17), Rafael Nadal (14) and Pete Sampras (14) own more.
Of Djokovic's 11 career losses at Roland Garros, six came against nine-time champion Nadal, one against Federer. Three came in finals, against Nadal in 2012 and 2014, against Stan Wawrinka a year ago. Djokovic's 2016 path was unencumbered by any member of that trio: Federer withdrew before the tournament and Nadal before the third round, both citing injury; Wawrinka was eliminated in the semifinals by Murray.
Still, Djokovic's most imposing adversary might very well have been his own demons -- the knowledge that the tournament that meant more to him than any other was the only tournament he simply couldn't seem to conquer.
Until now.
On Sunday -- the weather overcast but dry, unlike so much of the rainy past two weeks -- the first choruses of "No-le! No-le!" accompanied Djokovic's entrance to the court. They returned when an announcer introduced Djokovic during the warm-up period. And again when he skipped from sideline to baseline to receive in the opening game -- and, louder still, when Djokovic broke Murray to start.
"I felt that kind of support and love from the people around that allowed me to be sitting here with the trophy. That's for sure," Djokovic said. "That kind of support was very well present at the stadium today."
All in all, it sounded as if this were Belgrade, rather than a neutral site, and Murray complained that fans were calling out between his first and second serves.
Novak Djokovic has faced Andy Murray seven times in the final of a Grand Slam event, and after Sunday's victory in the French Open final, he has won five of those meetings.
The spectators really raised a ruckus when a Murray serve was called a fault by a linesman, immediately overruled by chair umpire Damien Dumusois. Because Djokovic's return was out, Dumusois declared Murray led 30-love. Djokovic, already convinced there should have been a double-fault there, maintained the point should be replayed.
Dumusois wasn't buying it. The crowd booed and whistled loudly, delaying play for a full minute, an odd interlude in a Grand Slam final.
Soon, Murray closed the first set. As Djokovic bowed his head, Murray ran backward to the changeover chair, pointing at his right temple.
Aside from the first game, Murray was perfect in that set, trying to become Britain's first male champion in Paris since 1935. Djokovic was off -- jitters, perhaps? -- and particularly so with his forehand, which offered up seven unforced errors before Murray made one.
Maybe, just maybe, Murray exhaled after grabbing the set. Djokovic found a reserve of resolve. The dynamic shifted completely. Murray's first-serve percentage dipped and he quickly fell behind 3-0.
"No-le! No-le!"
Now Djokovic was the domineering one, yanking an increasingly exhausted Murray this way and that with just the right shot at just the right moment and creating a 24-6 edge in winners across the second and third sets.
When Djokovic slid to reach a drop shot by Murray and somehow crafted a cross-court backhand winner at an impossible angle to go a double-break up in the third at 4-1, the Serb raised his right index finger -- "I'm No. 1!" -- then sat and raised a clenched fist.
"No-le! No-le!"
Djokovic broke again to begin the fourth set, and his long, arduous journey to history was soon complete.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Maria Sharapova's two-year suspension announced Wednesday by the International Tennis Federation was half the maximum she could have received, but stands as the most serious imposed on a top tennis player in the decade-plus that the sport has been governed by the World Anti-Doping Agency code.
That is a shallow pool. Relatively few tennis players of any stature have been sanctioned for performance-enhancing drugs as opposed to the occasional bad decision about cocaine.
Those who predicted star treatment for Sharapova may have been right, although not in the way they envisioned. Her success and wealth appeared to cut against her in the ruling by a three-man tribunal, which wondered aloud how an athlete with such a large professional entourage and vast resources could possibly have let this slip through the safety net.
In her mea-culpa news conference back in March, Sharapova admitted she didn't know the medication -- which she'd been taking since 2006, and in recent years without a prescription -- had been added to the banned list. In her testimony to the tribunal, she said she purposefully took it on match days, including at the 2016 Australian Open, where she tested positive. She consistently omitted it on her doping control forms, where athletes are expected to list all medications.
All of those factors were covered in a ruling that took into account the minutiae of notification as well as the broad issue of responsibility. Sharapova said she will appeal. WADA also has that option if the agency finds the sanction too soft or harsh.
Sharapova's case rightfully has focused attention on the way athletes are informed of changes to the prohibited substance list. That process should be reviewed regularly sport by sport and made as foolproof as possible, since it's only as strong as its weakest link. Sport federations and anti-doping authorities should fly banners over stadiums if necessary to avoid any hint of entrapment.
WADA also had to do what is called a "skinback'' in the journalism business when, with almost 300 positive meldonium tests entering the pipeline since the beginning of this year, it became clear that more research was needed on how long it takes for the drug to leave an individual's system. Credit to the agency for admitting the knowledge gap this spring and scrambling to collect data, but that research done in the preceding months could have saved everyone involved a lot of grief.
Among the scores of other athletes with pending meldonium cases, there's every chance that some did the right thing and stopped popping it before Jan. 1. Others committed the sin of neglect or took the risk of continuing to use it. Positive tests have come in a range of sports, from figure skating to wrestling to distance running -- the vast majority from Russia and Eastern Europe. Anecdotally, athletes from that region have said the medication was handed out like a vitamin.
Finally, there is at least the seed of an informed debate about the actual performance-enhancing effect of meldonium. The fact that its use was widespread, especially in a Russian sports system laced with corruption, is certainly suspect. On the other hand, that survey data doesn't mean that Sharapova or any other athlete necessarily became faster and stronger or recovered more quickly as a result of taking it.
Dr. David J. Greenblatt, a Tufts University School of Medicine professor who studies drug interactions, recently co-wrote a review of medical literature on meldonium that challenges the medication's therapeutic and potential doping efficacy.
"The vast majority of data is on animals or in-vitro systems, which is of minimal or no relationship to what goes on in humans," Greenblatt said in an interview with ESPN.com last month. "There are a couple of human studies, and as best we could tell, we cited every human English-language study. Basically, there's little or nothing there.
If Maria Sharapova's two-year drug suspension isn't reduced, it's unlikely she'll ever reclaim her place near the top of the game.
Maria Sharapova was suspended for two years by the International Tennis Federation on Wednesday for testing positive for the banned substance meldonium. Sharapova said she will appeal.
Maria Sharapova will use her suspension as motivation. Don't be surprised if she comes back healthy, determined and ready to restore her legacy.
"I would say, there is no substantive evidence that meldonium does anything to help human disease. And certainly, there's no evidence that it does anything to enhance athletic performance in athletes or otherwise normal people.''
In response, WADA's medical director, Dr. Alan Vernec noted that "potential of performance enhancement is not an absolutely necessary criterion."
In an email to ESPN.com, Vernec wrote, "It is often very difficult and even unethical, to do meaningful studies on elite-level athletes for many substances. Therefore, decisions must be made extrapolating from existing data, use patterns, pharmacology, etc.
"It is true that the product has not been evaluated in North America and Western Europe, even though the product is used by athletes from those regions. This did not stop WADA from investigating papers from Eastern Europe although admittedly and not surprisingly, there are limited good quality studies on the potential for performance-enhancing effect.''
It would be the height of irony if Sharapova's disregard for the rules, careless or reckless or both, cost her so mightily for a drug that may or may not have made much of a difference. That is unknowable. But as we are learning on almost a daily basis now, neither doping nor the anti-doping effort is an exact science.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEWPORT, R.I. -- Marat Safin and Justine Henin have been inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame during a ceremony on Newport's grass courts Saturday.
They were presented by Hall of Famers Jimmy Connors and Monica Seles, respectively.
Connors said Safin was "emotional and played with passion. That's what drew me to him."
Safin, Henin, Connors, and Seles taken for the stadium walk by ITHF President Stan Smith. Amazing ceremony today! pic.twitter.com/KvAhtyWJjM
Seles touched on Henin's classic one-handed backhand, calling it "without question one of the signature shots in tennis history. To be honest, I hated it."
Safin is the first player inducted into the hall from Russia, and Henin is the first from Belgium.
Amelie Mauresmo, inducted last year, also was honored Saturday. She missed the ceremony in 2015 ahead of the birth of her first child.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Billie Jean King stood at the modest speaker's stand Tuesday afternoon, patiently jabbing at the controller used to open and close the new $150 million roof over Arthur Ashe Stadium.
Nothing happened.
Flustered, King hit the button a few more times while concerned USTA officials huddled and communicated with the control center. After a delay of about 10 minutes, the steel and polyester fabric roof slid open even quicker than it had closed (5 minutes, 12 seconds), concluding the initial test drive.
Later, USTA executive director Gordon Smith and National Tennis Center chief operating executive Danny Zausner explained the glitch.
"There are 16 clamps that engage and trigger sensors when the roof is properly engaged," Smith said. "One of the sensors signaled that it was out of alignment and asked for a system reboot. It was basically saying, 'Hold everything, check me out.'"
With that, here are five things to know about the roof and how it might affect play -- and spectating -- at the upcoming US Open:
1. It blocks the rain ... and the sun
One reason the roof opens and closes so quickly is because a large portion of the roof is permanently in place. Much of the air space above the north and south portions of the stadium is covered with a steel framework and the same durable PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene) fabric as the two panels that slide together from the east and west to form the completed roof.
This will have some practical benefits for players and spectators alike: large portions of the least expensive seats in the upper section of the 24,000-seat stadium will have significant shade, depending on the time of day. The great benefit for the players will be that the roof promises to cut down significantly on the infamous swirling winds that sometimes plague the tournament.
2. Forget tickets, scalp earplugs
One thing the USTA could not test at all were the acoustics of the stadium with the roof closed. The demonstration Tuesday had perhaps 300 guests in attendance. It's the most the roofed stadium has held yet.
The noise level in center court increases significantly when the roof is closed. Even the famously polite British crowd at Wimbledon can sound somewhat intimidating in full roar. Now double the number of spectators, make them New Yorkers fueled by various happy tonics, throw in an egregiously bad overrule -- or even a spirited comeback by an underdog and, well, it will be resounding. Perhaps NCAA Final Four loud. Could this become a problem?
3. It has a hole bigger than a football field
It might seem like the functioning part of the "retractable" roof is small. That's really a comment on the size of Ashe. The "hole" filled with blue sky when the roof is open is actually larger than a football field. You can fit 22 tennis courts into it. The roof can be operated in a maximum wind speed of 50 miles per hour, which is 19 mph faster than the average speed of a severe thunderstorm starting from a dead calm.
4. The year of the roof isn't just about the roof
The new retractable roof over Arthur Ashe Stadium at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center will be ready when the US Open begins Aug. 29.
The roof is the great novelty -- and the much-needed upgrade -- this year. But this will be a vastly improved US Open in many other ways as well. A new 8,000-plus seat Grandstand stadium now dominates the southwest corner of the grounds. Visually, it's a gem, even if old hands who loved the "soul" of the old grandstand deride it as antiseptic. We'll see how it functions as a venue for players and fans.
There will be a lot more room to move around at the tennis center this year, and nobody is going to be upset about that. The courts outside Ashe have all been demolished and moved 40 feet to the south in order to create more space for walkways and less cramped spectator seating and facilities. If you plan to be a return visitor, you might think someone took the place and stretched it out, making it bigger and roomier.
5. Expect serious scheduling challenges
Unlike Wimbledon, the US Open has day and night sessions. So what happens if rain interrupts a day program? Do you finish the order of play and cancel the night session? Officials will have to decide whether to move outside matches into Ashe after they were started on other courts. (Usually play continues on the same court when there is any kind of interruption or postponement.)
Fairness issues will undoubtedly kick in as officials try to stay on schedule, satisfy broadcasters and treat players equally.
"We have looked at all kinds of protocols and talked to the relevant parties [ATP and WTA]," Smith said. "We are just going to have to go on a case-by-case basis."
The best solution: Assume that the Murphy's Law kicks in -- that after you build the $150 million roof, you never get rained on. Ever again.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
At a children's party this weekend, a 4-year-old walked in wearing blue-and-white Velcro shoes from an unexpected signature athlete.
Michael Jordan? Nope. LeBron James? Definitely not. Stephen Curry? Not these.
They were Stan Smiths.
"It has always been a great shoe," Smith told ESPN in an exclusive interview. "So clean and simple."
How did little Sammy come to be wearing the shoes of a 69-year-old tennis player who was last No. 1 in the world eight years before the child's parents were born? It's thanks to what might be the greatest sneaker revival of all time.
Adidas, which has made the sneakers for more than 50 years, now sells Stan Smiths in black, in pink, in blue, in men's, in women's, in kids' and infant sizes. There are knit Stans, suede Stans and Stans that are dipped in gold. And if you can't find a pair to your liking, you can go online and customize your own. You'll see them on feet from New York to Tokyo. In its 2014 annual report, Adidas revealed that the Stan Smiths were the company's best-selling shoes of all time, with more than 40 million pairs sold. Buoyed by the Stan Smiths, sales of Adidas Classics in the U.S. are up 60 percent for the first six months of 2016.
But Stan Smith -- the tennis player, not the sneaker -- started out as one of those guys who was just at the right place at the right time.
In 1965, Adidas made a plain white tennis shoe with green accents for one of the best tennis players in the world at the time, Frenchman Robert Haillet. Unlike other Adidas shoes, it had perforated holes in place of company's iconic three stripes, and it displayed Haillet's signature on the side.
The shoes were popular at the time, as the leather made it the best performance shoe available, but Adidas thought it had a problem in 1971 when Haillet retired. Horst Dassler, the son of Adidas founder Adi Dassler, reached out to Donald Dell, the former U.S. Davis Cup captain who started a sports agency the year before with two tennis clients: Arthur Ashe and Stan Smith.
Dell suggested Smith as a fill-in for the line. Though the ATP and its official rankings system hadn't been created yet, Smith was considered the best player in the world. Horst Dassler took Dell's advice and signed Smith to a small, five-year deal. Adidas, judging by the way its executives acted, didn't have much faith that Smith had staying power. Although Smith was the lead endorser, he was wearing a shoe that still had Haillet's name on it.
"I became friends with [Haillet] because of the shoe," Smith said. "His son called me when Robert died" in 2011. That son had also been upset years earlier, when Adidas took his father's name off the shoe.
That change came in 1978. Adidas put Smith's signature on the tongue of the sneaker for the first time, along with an image of Smith -- that strangely featured him without a mustache.
"My whole adult life I had one, save for a year [when I was] 23 and 24," Smith said.
The signature, which features an "S" shared by both Stan and Smith, was created with the help of Kathy Andrews, a Delta flight attendant who'd met Smith at an autograph signing years before.
"She thought I had a boring signature, so I did it with one 'S,'" Smith said.
On the shoe heel, Adidas added another green panel with Smith's full name and the Adidas trident.
In the 1980s, as the Stan Smiths started to lose relevance as tennis performance shoes, they started to become popular as fashion shoe. At some point, Smith got used to it.
"I was at the US Open in the early '90s," he said, "and some young man recognized me and told me, 'Your shoe is really big in the hood.'"
In 2001, his then 14-year-old daughter, Austin, told him he was famous.
"She told me that Jaysee had put me in his song," said Smith, who rotates through 50 pairs in his own personal collection. "I said, 'Who is Jaysee?' She said, 'No, it's Jay Z.'"
She wasn't kidding. "Lampin' in the Hamptons, the weekends man/The Stan Smith Adidas and the Campus," Jay Z says in a song on his 2001 album "The Blueprint." Smith has also been name-checked in songs by A$AP Rocky, Joe Budden, Rick Ross and Lil Wayne, among others.
As the shoe found a second life as an iconic element of fashion, Smith earned a flat fee each year until 2005, when Dell was able to convince Adidas officials that Smith deserved more -- a royalty structure paying him for each shoe sold. Neither Dell nor Smith would reveal how much Smith was earning from those sales, but it can't be too shabby given how hot the shoe now is.
"I'm not making Michael Jordan money," Smith said, laughing, referencing the more than $100 million MJ is said to make each year in Nike royalties.
In 2011, Adidas executives had a meeting with Smith and Dell. The executives told the pair that they felt the market was crowded and needed a little cleaning up. To that end, they were going to stop producing Stan Smiths for 2012 and 2013.
"I didn't like that idea," Smith said. "But they knew exactly what they were doing."
While the Stan Smiths were off the market, people didn't forget about them. In fact, the shoe still generated plenty of buzz, including in 2013, when Gisele Bundchen posed for the cover of Vogue Paris wearing only her Stan Smiths.
On Jan. 14, 2014, a day Smith remembers well, the shoes returned to the market with much fanfare. Adidas sent shoes to influencers such as Pharrell Williams and Ellen DeGeneres, replacing Smith's face with the stars' own.
 Check out my new kicks.
A photo posted by Ellen (@theellenshow) on Sep 10, 2013 at 10:49am PDT
Absence had indeed made the heart grow fonder.
"Most strategic plans fail at execution," said Eric Liedtke, head of Adidas global brands. "We got this one right."
Like young kids who drink an Arnold Palmer today and wonder why a golfer is on the can, people aren't buying the shoes because of Stan Smith. But he doesn't mind that Taylor Swift -- who was spotted wearing the shoes in Australia last month -- might not know who he is. It's enough that she was spotted wearing his shoes this summer.
"I tell my wife that 95 percent of people don't know that I'm an actual person," said Smith, who runs an elite tennis program and a corporate hospitality company out of his home base in Hilton Head, S.C. "Then she, of course, says the number is closer to 99 percent."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
BUENOS AIRES -- Argentine tennis has been dreaming of this year for decades, the year that ended with the Davis Cup finally traveling home.
It was arguably the toughest Cup schedule in years, with all four series played abroad. But one match after the other, Argentina had the team spirit it lacked on other occasions (exactly four) to conquer the most desired trophy in Argentine sports.
Sparked by Juan Martin del Potro's epic five-set comeback win against Marin Cilic on Sunday, Argentina rallied to beat Croatia 3-2 and clinch its first Davis Cup crown. It is only the second time a team has won after playing every series on the road (France also did it in 2001).
Sparked by Juan Martin del Potro's epic five-set comeback win against Marin Cilic on Sunday, Argentina rallied to beat Croatia 3-2 and clinch its first Davis Cup crown.
Captain Daniel Orsanic was the mastermind behind the success, selecting the best of what was available for each series and making sure the group was ahead of individuals in each of the four victories against Poland, Italy, Great Britain and Croatia.
"Delpo showed his huge heart after turning around the match that looked lost," Orsanic told reporters after Sunday's victory. "Federico played a perfect match under huge pressure. I'm really proud to be part of this fantastic team."
It started in March against Poland. Without Del Potro, who had just returned to training in February after undergoing wrist surgery for the third time, Argentina got gutsy victories from Guido Pella and Leo Mayer to seal a 3-2 win. Carlos Berlocq and Renzo Olivo were also in the lineup.
Delpo made his Davis Cup comeback after a four-year hiatus against Italy, teaming up with Pella for a crucial doubles point. Federico Delbonis was the hero of the series with two singles victories, including an upset of Fabio Fognini on Sunday for a 3-1 quarterfinal win.
In semifinals, Argentina were clearly the underdog in Glasgow against reigning champion Great Britain. But Del Potro rebounded from his gold-medal defeat against Andy Murray in Rio and beat the three-time Grand Slam winner in five sets. And while Great Britain rallied to even the series at two, Mayer remained calm in the deciding match to beat Daniel Evans in four sets and book a ticket to the final.
Zagreb, Croatia, was the final stop, as Argentina was vying to snap the longest drought in its history. Argentina first played in Davis Cup back in 1923. Fresh were the memories of Cincinnati (1981 against the United States), Moscow (2006 against Russia), Mar del Plata (2008 against Spain) and 2011 (Seville, once more against Spain). And, even more important, there was a feeling that some of those opportunities had been squandered because of a lack of teamwork and unity.
Trailing 2-1 heading into Sunday's final day, Del Potro rallied back from two sets down to seal a historic five-set win against Cilic in 4 hours, 53 minutes. Delbonis did not hesitate and closed his match in straight sets against Ivo Karlovic.
With the victory, Argentina became just the third team to come back from 2-1 down in the final since the World Group Davis Cup format was introduced in 1981.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Croatian tennis great Goran Ivanisevic talks about the IPTL and getting back in shape for the tournament. (2:38)
Carlos Moya and Mark Philippoussis are familiar combatants. They were born within months of each other in 1976. Their careers overlapped on the ATP tour. They shared the six matches they played against each other from 1997 to 2003 equally. Once, back in 1999, they played a bruising five-set final in Indian Wells that the big Australian won. Those memories are locked away from a more high-profile time in their lives, a time they can only look back on and reminisce about.
Except on this Sunday, as they bustled on to the court in Hyderabad, they had the chance to taste their rivalry again, if only for a fleeting few moments. Moya and Philippoussis were the opening act of the final of this season's International Premier Tennis League (IPTL) in Hyderabad. They would take each other on in the men's legends singles to get us going. As a prelude, a boisterous song-and-dance routine had done its bit to lift an arena peppered with a smallish crowd. Local girl Sania Mirza joined in as did Lara Dutta, the film-star wife of IPTL founder Mahesh Bhupathi, the former Indian doubles star. The fun had been had, but it was the games that would determine the course of this day.
This, the third season of the IPTL, had been uncertain and chaotic. On the eve of the final, Bhupathi admitted to ESPN that they had battled several challenges and that he had been "upset and embarrassed" at the minuscule ticket sales on their first-ever stopover in Hyderabad. Once the promise of Roger Federer and Serena Williams appearing evaporated, the tepid response was only to be expected. Yet, Bhupathi insisted the quality of tennis over the previous two legs in Tokyo and Singapore had been "amazing" and the final would be intensely competitive.
In an extensive interview with ESPN on the eve of the ITPL final, the league's founder Mahesh Bhupathi opens up about the various challenges he has faced this year.
So back to our legends to put Bhupathi's claims to the test. Time away from the competitive grind has been kinder on Moya. He is resplendent in a bright orange shirt, flowing locks and a signature headband to hold them in place. He shows soon enough that he still commands the smarts with a racquet in hand. Philippoussis is dazzled as lobs clear him at the net, as Moya scrambles in the backcourt to retrieve balls and cunningly shimmies backhands behind him. The Aussie is sweating and panting even as the Spaniard is bubbling with the zest of a tyro.
S. Subramanium/IPTL

The scoring pattern in the IPTL attaches value to every game won and Moya gives his team, the Singapore Slammers, an early advantage. 6-4. Philippoussis meanders back disconsolate to his bench at the end of the set. His team, the Indian Aces, have won both previous clashes against the Slammers this season, but this has been a stumbly start.
The construct of the IPTL inverses the usual routine of tennis. Team members crowd around the player in action at changeovers, they holler advice and encouragement from the sidelines, they create an all-for-one, one-for-all environment. Sania Mirza says "no one wants to lose" and let the rest of the team down. Goran Ivanisevic, who turns out for the UAE Royals, says the pressure one experiences in a setting such as the IPTL is "unique" as players are desperate not to be the reason for the team's defeat.
Nick Kyrgios, a forlorn outsider with well-documented disciplinary problems on the regular circuit, is a steam of energy on the Slammers bench. He rises at the end of each victorious point, he high-fives with great relish. For Kyrgios, turning up in the IPTL is to fulfill a sporting fantasy he had as a kid that tennis snatched away.
On the surface, it doesn't seem as if Nick Kyrgios cares about his success the way you think a top player would. JOHANNES EISELE/AFP/Getty Images

"I always look forward to the IPTL and the new faces on the team have been key," he says later. "You make new friends, you have this team spirit that the IPTL offers and we have had such a good chemistry. We have been supporting each other during the whole competition. I love team sports. I love watching and also playing. Everyone supported me this week and that makes it more fun, more enjoyable."
Bhupathi and his staff expect this whole-hearted thumbs-up from the players to count as a significant plus in their favour as they aim to emerge from the difficulties of this season. Over the course of the next few months, they will consider the reset needed to ensure the IPTL stays afloat. Financial considerations are paramount. A source in the management team admits significant losses have been accumulated this season. Player costs constitute nearly 70% of the expenditure but there is no way around that.
Without star power, attracting big audiences in arenas or sizable TV audiences will be a non-starter. While that is a non-negotiable, some of the questions the IPTL will grapple with before putting the next season together are the length of its schedule -- coming as it does at the back end of a long season -- the number of cities they must play in and whether to restrict themselves to what Bhupathi calls the "three biggest markets" in Asia. There is talk of expanding beyond the continent as well, though that is at a nascent stage for now. Within the leadership groups, conversations have already begun to ensure a greater number of big stars commit to the event in 2017.
The final provided a glimpse of the IPTL's potential to be a sporting competition of merit. An inspired Slammers outfit sizzled in the sets following Moya's victory over Philippoussis, including a surprisingly one-sided defeat handed out to the star Indian pairing of Rohan Bopanna and Sania Mirza in the mixed doubles by Marcelo Melo and Kiki Bertens. The final scoreline read 30-14, again unexpectedly lopsided. As the trophy went up in the hands of an elated Slammers outfit, the men and women behind the scenes heaved a visible sigh of relief.
At times in recent months, it hadn't seemed possible. But the IPTL has lived -- and it intends to fight another day.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PRAGUE -- Two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova was injured by a knife-wielding attacker at her home Tuesday and had to undergo surgery on her left hand.
An operation that took 3 hours and 45 minutes revealed that the left-handed player's injuries were "serious,'' but "there's no reason to think she wouldn't be able to play tennis,'' her spokesman Karel Tejkal said.
Kvitova will, however, miss the Australian Open and a significant part of the season as she won't be able to fully train for at least three months, Tejkal said.
Kvitova suffered damage to the tendons in her left hand, along with injuries to all five fingers and two nerves, Tejkal added.
The 2011 and 2014 champion at the All England Club said she considered herself lucky to have survived the attack Tuesday morning in the eastern Czech Republic town of Prostejov.
In my attempt to defend myself, I was badly injured on my left hand. I am shaken, but fortunate to be alive. The injury is severe and I will
need to see specialists, but if you know anything about me I am strong and I will fight this. Thank you all again for your love and support
In an earlier statement on the Facebook page of the Czech Republic's Fed Cup team, Kvitova said: "What happened to me was certainly not pleasant, but it's behind me. I have the best possible care and I'm in touch with my loved ones. The worst is behind me.''
It was not immediately clear how the injury could affect Kvitova's play. She underwent surgery "because of her condition and future career,'' said Tejkal, who described the incident as a burglary.
Prostejov police spokesman Frantisek Korinek said the attacker, a man who is about 35 years old, escaped from the scene and was at large. He said police have launched a manhunt.
Tennis players from around the globe responded quickly after Petra Kvitova was injured by a knife-wielding attacker at her home Tuesday.
Kvitova was scheduled to participate in a charity event in the city of Brno on Tuesday with another Czech player, Lucie Safarova.
"It's horrible," Safarova told Czech public radio. "Things like that are shocking to all of us. It can happen to any one of us. That's really terrible."
In April 1993, Monica Seles was at the height of her success when she was stabbed in the back during a changeover at a tournament in Hamburg, Germany. A man reached over a courtside railing and knifed her, leaving an inch-deep slit between her shoulder blades.
Seles returned to the game 27 months later and reached the 1995 US Open final.
In an unrelated move earlier Tuesday, Kvitova withdrew from the Czech Republic team at next month's Hopman Cup mixed-team tennis tournament because of an earlier foot injury.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Beyond Cori "Coco" Gauff's swift movement and muscular forehands lies her most disarming feature: those fierce, dark brown eyes that capture the blatant intensity in her enormous drive.
Recently, Gauff won her first three girls' 16-under singles matches at the Eddie Herr International Championships, dropping only four games. She has competed credibly in national 18-under events. On Dec. 20, Gauff collected her first Junior Orange Bowl title, winning all seven matches in straight sets.
This from a 12-year-old.
For some context, consider these former 12-under Junior Orange Bowl champions: Steffi Graf (1981), Monica Seles (1985) and Jennifer Capriati (1986). Between them, they went on to win 34 Grand Slam singles titles.
Even though the odds are heavily against Gauff, and despite the historic difficulty of predicting professional viability for juniors, this is the kind of soaring success that Gauff and her team aspire to. Certainly, some tantalizing opportunities have already presented themselves.
Coco has already met her idol, Serena Williams -- three times -- and trained with Williams' coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, in France. Twice. At the Orange Bowl, Gauff wore a striking salmon-colored ensemble bearing the familiar swoosh logo of a certain apparel company based in Oregon. She has already represented America in international age-group competition, in Montreal. The United States Tennis Association, not surprisingly, has taken a keen interest in her sharply angled trajectory.
"I think she can be as good as she wants to be," said Martin Blackman, the USTA's general manager of player development. "She dreams big."
How big?
"Um..." begins Gauff when the question is posed.
And, just when you're expecting the typical, best-I-can-be kind of answer juniors are ruthlessly coached to give, she drops the hammer.
"I want to be," Gauff says emphatically, "the greatest of all time."
A swift rise
Great tennis players are usually blessed with exceptional genes, and Gauff is no exception.
Her father, Corey, for whom she is named, was an elusive point guard at Georgia State University. Her mother, Candi, was a talented gymnast, a five-time Florida high school champion heptathlete, and later a track star at Florida State University.
Corey played tennis growing up in Florida, and when his daughter was 6, she attended her first camp in Delray Beach.
"She took to it," Corey said. "She liked the skirts."
Gauff, who has two younger brothers, Codey and Cameron, played the USTA's scaled-down version for youngsters, which features oversized rackets, foam balls and a smaller court. She also took lessons on the conventional court.
"One thing we noticed," her father said, "was she had a unique ability to actually concentrate for 15 to 20 minutes. As parents, we decided to make no-regrets moves: 'Let's get her good coaching and a lot of feedback.'"
In 2012, Gauff won the "Little Mo" 8-under Nationals. In the triumphant post-victory photo, she's dressed in all white, balancing the championship trophy on her head. In 2014, the No. 17 seed came away with the USTA Clay Court National 12-under title. She was 10 years, 3 months old, the youngest champion in history. Gauff has been a forceful presence at the elite junior level ever since.
She's already taller than some professional players, and her father says she has a few more inches to go, maybe up to 5-foot-9 or 5-10. Gauff also has long arms, a "weird wingspan," according to Corey, which makes her serve even more dangerous. When she grows into her body, he said, sounding like a dad, maybe she'll learn to stop overrunning so many balls.
The USTA's Blackman is less critical.
"In the back of the court, she's solid on both sides," he said. "She's already got a good slice, her volleys are sound, and she's got a nice overhead. That's really important, especially for girls because it means they're comfortable at net.
"She's got a very complete game, a really good foundation to develop an all-around game."
Walking that fine line
Blackman, who is nearly two years into his appointment as the man in charge of finding the next generation of American tennis professionals, knows this firsthand. For three years, between jobs with the USTA, the former pro ran a tennis academy in Florida.
One of his pupils was 8-year-old Coco Gauff.
"They wanted an evaluation of her skills, a different set of eyes," Blackman said. "The first thing I noticed was her attitude and character. She was an amazing athlete and already very hardworking, really wanted to learn.
"Just so you know, my time with her didn't have much to do with her success."
And Blackman laughed. Truth is, he sits at the top of a serious business.
Serena and Venus Williams are still wonderful players, but they are 35 and 36, respectively. Andy Roddick, the last U.S. man to win a Grand Slam singles title, scored that breakthrough more than 13 years ago and has been long retired.
The search for the next American No. 1 is a multimillion-dollar business. It begins with the USTA national campus in Orlando, which opened Monday. It has 100 tennis courts and, at any given time, hosts dozens of players from various levels. There is a gym and housing for youngsters in the player development program. Just as important, perhaps, is the Team USA initiative, which focuses on working with players and coaches in the private sector.
The Williams sisters, who famously circumvented the conventional junior system, were trained initially by their parents, Richard and Oracene. Going forward, the tennis education of Gauff will include a deferential, nuanced approach by Blackman and the USTA.
Gauff is coached by Gerard Loglo at the New Generation Tennis Academy in Delray Beach. She is home-schooled by her mother, who like both of Coco's grandmothers is a former teacher. Coco played basketball last year, but will start focusing solely on tennis. The USTA, said her father, has been "very helpful."
While most seventh-graders are buckling down to a new year of reading, writing and arithmetic, Gauff has an ambitious month ahead on the court, representing the United States in tournaments in Bolton, England, and Tarbes, France.
"The first message to younger players, parents and coaches is development over outcome," Blackman said. "One of the things we've learned is that when something works with a player, especially with a primary coach, we need to support and facilitate what's going well rather than interjecting ourselves and changing the equation.
"In Cori's case, her performance and outcomes speak for themselves. We're saying, 'Hey, listen, USTA player development is there for you. What you're doing is working real well. We don't want to disrupt what you're doing developmentally, but we're here as a resource for you.'"
Developing a deeper pool
Ask Coco Gauff who her favorite players are and she quickly obliges, in order: "Serena, Venus, Madison Keys and Sloane Stephens."
Coco met Serena for the first time as an 8-year-old at the "Little Mo" tournament in New York, managing to get an autograph on the yellow tennis ball she thrust at the champion. They met again two years ago during the shooting of a Delta commercial in West Palm Beach.
"It was fun, a great experience," Cori said. "She has always been my favorite player. I got to hit some serves to her. I also met her in Nice, France [at the Patrick Mouratoglou training facility]."
Serena asked Coco where she was from and added, "Keep on doing what you're doing." Gauff's trip to Nice as a rising star was underwritten by the Champ'Seed Foundation; Mouratoglou is the foundation's president.
Blackman said Serena and Venus have inspired an entire generation of young girls.
"We've got a lot of good African-American girls coming through the pipeline," he noted. "Hispanic players, too. I see this as a direct result of the success of Serena and Venus Williams. There is no substitute for a young girl to see that kind of example, get some time with them. Especially for a young African-American player, to be in the same environment as a great champion.
"The deeper the pool, the better chance we have of developing champions."
Predicting the future?
In 2005, a pair of precocious 15-year-olds won the Australian Open junior titles.
Donald Young of the United States became the youngest junior boys' champion ever and Belarus' Victoria Azarenka was the girls' winner.
Young, also the youngest No. 1-ranked junior in history, would capture the 2007 Wimbledon junior title.
Azarenka, who recently gave birth to her first child, followed through on that dazzling promise. She has won 20 WTA titles (including two at the Australian Open), has held the No. 1 ranking, and has won more than $28 million in prize money. She is contemplating a return this year.
Young, now 27, has become something of a cautionary tale. He has never won an ATP World Tour-level tournament and his highest ranking, No. 38, came four years ago.
Colette Lewis, editor of ZooTennis.com, a definitive source for junior tennis, has long since given up projecting professional careers for the young athletes she covers.
"For every Madison Keys," she wrote in an email, "there's a Maria Shishkina. For every Daria Gavrilova, there's a Laura Robson. For every CiCi Bellis, there's a Hanna Orlik.
"I have no idea which place in that vast spectrum Gauff will land. She has size and appears to have the technique and temperament, but so many things have to go right."
Keys won the 12-and-under title at the 2007 Junior Orange Bowl. At 21, she is already ranked No. 8 among WTA players and is expected to compete for Grand Slam titles for years. This is the kind of career path Team Gauff envisions, but father Corey said he understands the daunting degree of difficulty.
"My goal is to help her achieve her dreams of being No. 1 and winning Grand Slams," Corey said. "I've told her, 'It's a lot of hard work. You're going to have to say no to things other kids say yes to. And yes to things other kids say no to.'
"Maybe half of the Orange Bowl champions make it to some degree. The other half don't. I think we all realize that it takes a lot. There's a physical piece, a mental piece, and there's the financial, the spiritual -- and luck, too -- for it to happen."
Coco turns 13 in March and will focus on training for the summer nationals in San Diego, where she'd like to qualify again for the 18-under event. In two or three years, she'd like to win that tournament and collect the wild card into the US Open main draw that comes with it.
"What's it going to take?" said Coco, reframing a reporter's question. "Hard work, and a lot of practice. A lot of motivation and discipline.
"And, yeah, listening to my parents."
This brought on a few giggles, something typical of a 12-year-old.
Her Instagram profile (tenniscoco13) sounds far wiser:
"I am not going to be the next Serena Williams," it reads, "I am going to be the first Cori 'Coco' Gauff."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MELBOURNE, Australia -- Ah, so you think you know tennis?
Quick, who has the fastest reaction time to an incoming serve?
Conventional wisdom says it's Novak Djokovic, widely regarded as the best returner in the game.
But the good folks at Tennis Australia would beg to differ. Their newly created Game Insight Group (GIG) has crunched the numbers and the answer is ... mercurial Aussie Nick Kyrgios.
Based on data from his Australia Open matches from 2014-16, Kyrgios average reaction time is a scintillating .614 seconds, marginally ahead of the great Roger Federer. Djokovic, for the record, is seventh at a relatively tardy .638.
Who knew?
Tennis has always been a sport of incremental change, and its analytics are no different. Break points saved, winners, unforced errors, aces -- those are the typical numbers you see in the coverage of the sport. But with GIG leading the metric charge, that is changing.
"There was an appetite within Tennis Australia, and it's been a passion of mine, to challenge the status quo, test out conventional wisdom," explained the GIG director, Dr. Machar Reid, whose official job title is innovation catalyst. "We've landed on a bunch of questions that are unresolved.
"That's the charter of GIG, going where others don't, trying to understand the sport from different perspectives."
GIG analyzed the Australian Open data from 2012-16 and, factoring in human behavior, equipment and the dimensions of the court, came up with rankings in a number of compelling categories.
The tournament rolls out these statistics daily, in general categories as well as match-specific data. The results, which can be found on the Australian Open website, are fascinating.
"The challenge for us," Reid said, "is how we translate that information, for players and coaches, for fans and policy makers. We are working with the ITF [International Tennis Federation] in looking at the structure of the professional game."
The ultimate goal is to gain insight that will improve training methods and allow tournaments to be more player-friendly.
But for our purposes?
Let's consider the eye-catching categories of fastest forehand and backhand, speediest on the court, and who works the hardest on every point.
Donald Young, still sweating from his second-round loss to Philipp Kohlschreiber, smiled in his interview chair when a quiz was proposed.
Who possesses the fastest average forehand in the game?
"Uh, maybe del Potro?" said Young, tentatively.
The answer, it turns out, is fellow American Jack Sock, whose extreme Western grip and superior torque gives him a blazing 86.33 mph fastball. Reid was quick to point out that these numbers don't account for spin, so the flatter (and closer to the net) the ball flies, the faster it goes.
There's no sign of Rafael Nadal on the top-20 list, but Stan Wawrinka is seventh, at 81.31, with Tomas Berdych 11th at 80.47 and Milos Raonic 18th at 79.94.
Who's the fastest woman on the forehand side?
That would be another American, 21-year-old Madison Keys, who comes in at 81.29 mph.
"Whoa," said Young. "She really gives it a good ride."
The surprising thing? Keys is ranked eighth overall -- ahead of most men.
Serena Williams, surprisingly, is not among the top 20 -- outhit by fellow Americans Christina McHale (ninth, 77.3), Coco Vandeweghe (16th, 76.0) and Nicole Gibbs (17th, 75.91).
Sock himself was not overly impressed.
"I think everyone who I play knows I look to hit a forehand and it has a lot of spin on it and RPMs," Sock said after a second-round win over Karen Khachanov. "I don't really look at the specifics, ever.
"I'm not a technical person like that at all. I don't know, maybe some people it can help. I don't think if I change a couple of RPMs on my forehand it's going to make or break anything."
The fastest active backhands go to Lukas Rosol (75.2) and Keys (74.62), who ranks seventh among all players.
"Everyone looks at the Keys numbers and in some respects is taken aback," Reid said when asked if any results surprised him. "It's amazing how close she approximates what men do, the ball flight and how close to net it is. Madison's balls skid through the court more than most."
How about sheer speed around the court?
"Hmm," said Young, grimacing. "Maybe Monfils? Ferrer?"
The unexpected answer: Djokovic, who isn't seen as a speed merchant, but who does have extraordinary anticipation.
Simona Halep is the fastest on the women's side.
"Yeah, it's nice to hear that," Halep said. "Maybe because I'm not that tall, that's why I'm fast. It's my advantage, I can say -- the speed during the matches, during the game."
Said Young, "That is super-cool. Tennis doesn't have those stats like basketball and baseball."
Well, it does now.
And now for something a little more advanced.
The GIG created a "clutch" statistic that attempts to capture how players perform under pressure. From the GIG primer: "The clutch serve index shows the percentage of important service points a player wins on average. This number represents how often we could expect a player to win on serve when the pressure is on. A high percentage on this stat highlights a player who can serve effectively, even when the pressure is on -- whether in a tiebreak, facing break point, or trying to close out a match."
Your predictable men's clutch leaders: No. 1, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga; No. 2, Djokovic; No. 3, Berdych. Among the women: No. 1, Johanna Konta; No. 2, Williams; and No. 3, Garbine Muguruza.
Another less conventional category is something called work rate.
"Hawkeye has made available data on distance, but that doesn't capture the actual work the players do -- the distance, speed, directional changes, which aren't all equal," explained Reid. "We take all that and distill it into one thing."
Intuitively, this one makes sense. Andy Murray is ranked first in per-point energy expended, followed by the eternally hustling David Ferrer and Gilles Simon. The hardest-working woman is Barbora Strycova, followed by Caroline Wozniacki and Yulia Putintseva.
The individual match reports are intriguing, too.
In Nadal's 4-hour, 6-minute victory over German teenager Alexander Zverev last week, Rafa won almost one in every two clutch points on second serve. Zverev was merely one-for-five. After the second set, Zverev didn't win a single rally that lasted 10 shots or more. Nadal's work rate was 9.5 percent more than the 19-year-old's, which might explain why Rafa took an average of 27.7 seconds between serves, while Zverev was just under the loosely enforced maximum of 20 seconds at 19.4.
Bethanie Mattek-Sands, the No.1-ranked doubles player, clearly had fun taking the quiz. She failed to guess the leader in numerous categories but was usually in the top 10. Admittedly, she is not a big fan of statistics -- particularly her own.
"If I have to find out my first-serve percentage again, I might strangle somebody," she said, laughing. "I know if I'm serving good or bad. Got that one."
Still, she was intrigued by some of the off-the-grid numbers.
"I feel like other sports have so many metrics," Mattek-Sands said. "You know statistic after statistic after statistic. To the detail of won-loss records in 20-degree weather or under a roof.
"Give me the record when it's over 95 degrees and somebody in the top 10 is playing. Why not bring that to tennis?"
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MELBOURNE, Australia -- Roger Federer completed the trifecta of throwback-star triumphs on a memorable night at Melbourne Park, holding off compatriot Stan Wawrinka in a wild five-set semifinal.
Coming off a commanding performance in the quarterfinals, Federer was erratic by comparison Thursday. The final score, a 7-5, 6-3, 1-6, 4-6, 6-3 thriller, was full of missed opportunities, mistakes and apparent gamesmanship. Still, the win sent Federer into the Australian Open final for the sixth time, a scenario that just two weeks ago seemed improbable.
"I never, ever, in my wildest dream felt I was going to be coming this far in Australia, and here I am. It's beautiful. I'm so happy," said Federer, who is playing in his first Grand Slam since coming back from six months off due to injury.
Never in Roger Federer's wildest dreams did he think he'd make it to the Australian Open final. Yet, here he is.
Serena, Venus and Roger. Oh yeah. Three of the all-time greats are in the Aussie final. Now it's your turn, Rafa.
Tennis icon Andre Agassi is imploring sports fans to cherish Roger Federer's once-in-a-lifetime talents while they still can.
Earlier in the day, Venus and Serena Williams advanced to the women's championship, renewing an all-sibling showdown that a decade ago was mainstream at this stage of Grand Slams.
And now Federer, who awaits the winner of Friday's match between No. 9 Rafael Nadal and No. 15 Grigor Dimitrov, has a chance to add to his record 17 Grand Slam titles.
"Regardless of who it's going to be against, it's going to be special either way -- one is going to go for his first Slam, or it's the epic battle with Rafa," Federer said. "All I care about is that I can win. Doesn't matter who's across the net. But I understand the magnitude of the match against Nadal."
Now 35 years old and ranked No. 17 in the world, Federer missed the final six months of 2016 to heal the left knee he injured a day after losing in last year's Australian Open semifinals against Novak Djokovic. Amazingly, Federer improved his hard-court record against Wawrinka, the 2016 US Open winner, to 14-0, a string of excellence in which he has lost only six sets.
Federer is the oldest man to reach a Grand Slam final since Ken Rosewall made the 1974 US Open final at the age of 39.
On Sunday, Federer will have another chance to end a 4½-year drought without a major title. He reflected on the possibility of facing his longtime tormentor Nadal, who leads their career head-to-head record 23-11.
"Rafa's definitely presented the biggest challenge," Federer said. "I played him too many times on clay early in my career, and it affected how I played him on other surfaces. This court allows me to play offense.
"I'm probably his No. 1 fan. His game is tremendous. I'm happy we've had some epic battles over the years."
Unlike the quarterfinals, in which Federer raced off to a 5-0 lead against Mischa Zverev, the four-time Aussie Open champ needed some time to get dialed in. Up 2-1 in the opening set, he had three break chances but failed to convert any. In the ensuing game, Federer fell behind 15-40 -- one of those points an ugly backhand he shanked 5 feet behind the baseline -- but he bailed himself out with two timely unreturnable serves.
Visibly unglued in the second set after falling behind an early break, Wawrinka took his displeasure out on his racket, first blasting it onto the court, then snapping it in half over his knee -- reminiscent of Bo Jackson in the batter's box -- like it was no big deal.
Down two sets, Wawrinka, who was walking gingerly to his changeover chair, took a well-timed break to visit the trainer and have his right knee taped. The downtime inspired Wawrinka. Twenty-six minutes later, he won the third set. Wawrinka then broke Federer twice in the fourth, sending the match into a do-or-die fifth.
Frustrated, Federer left the court to see the trainer, explaining later that it was to treat an upper-leg injury. In the sixth game of the final set, Federer broke Wawrinka when he double-faulted before ultimately ending the 3-hour, 5-minute affair.
"It's hard to stop the bleeding," Federer said. "I was playing tight. It wasn't easy, and Stan was also playing nothing to lose. It was definitely very tricky for us to play our best tennis in the fifth."
The sold-out crowd in Rod Laver Arena roared when Wawrinka double-faulted to give Federer the critical service break.
With Wawrinka out, this marks the first time in 15 years that the men's final won't feature a top-four seed. But no one will be complaining about a lack of star power this weekend.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
While on SportsCenter, Serena Williams receives two pairs of sneakers from Michael Jordan for winning her 23rd Grand Slam singles title. (1:13)
MELBOURNE, Australia -- Serena Williams is alone at the top when it comes to Grand Slam achievement in the Open era.
By defeating her sister Venus Williams 6-4, 6-4 in the Australian Open final Saturday, Serena won her 23rd major title, breaking the record she had shared with Steffi Graf.
Serena Williams made it officially clear with another Australian Open championship that she is the greatest female tennis player ever.
It may sound crazy, but with Grand Slam No. 23 out of the way, Serena Williams' step is bound to be lighter, and her arm will swing more freely.
When you consider what Venus Williams has been through, the fact she made the Australian Open final is one of the most remarkable stories in quite some time.
Serena has experienced some high-anxiety moments in major matches, and she did again Saturday. In the early going, she smashed her racket in frustration after falling down on the baseline, and she served three tentative double-faults in a span of four points.
However, she soon settled -- and made history. Serena closed the match on her first championship point, charging the net with a forehand that Venus could not successfully return.
"My first Grand Slam started here, and getting to 23 here, but playing Venus, it's stuff that legends are made of," Serena said. "I couldn't have written a better story."
As difficult as it must have been to play against her sister, the enormous reward will likely help compensate for any mental anguish.
It's Serena's seventh Australian Open title and second in the past three tournaments in Melbourne. She also has seven titles at Wimbledon, six at the US Open and three at the French Open.
She remains one Grand Slam championship behind the all-time leader, Margaret Court, who has 24 titles in the Open and amateur eras. Court, an Australian who won 13 majors before the dawn of the Open era in 1968, was among those applauding the Williams sisters at Rod Laver Arena.
Saturday's victory also means Serena will regain the world No. 1 ranking from Angelique Kerber, who was eliminated in the fourth round in Melbourne. Next week will be Serena's 310th at the top of tennis.
Venus, a seven-time Slam champion, (two US Open and five Wimbledon) was in the final of the Australian Open for the first time since 2003.
In an on-set interview with ESPN, Serena received a letter of congratulations and a pair of shoes from NBA Hall of Famer and legendary No. 23 Michael Jordan. One shoe was red and black -- the Chicago Bulls' colors -- and the other was a more Serena-esque pink.
"Thank you, Michael. I can't believe I'm saying thank you Michael Jordan," Serena said. "He's the greatest."
Tennis icon Billie Jean King also sent a pair of tweets Saturday morning to honor the Williams sisters.
Congrats @serenawilliams on your 23rd major title and return to the top of the@WTA rankings. You are a history maker and a trailblazer.
To @Venuseswilliams: Thanks for showing us it's never too late. What anamazing run and what an amazing life. #championforever
After the match, the sisters expressed their love and respect for each other in moving speeches to the crowd.
"Serena Williams ... that's my little sister, guys," said Venus, who was up first, laughing. "Congratulations, Serena, on No. 23. I have been right there with you.
"Your win has always been my win. I think you know that I'm enormously proud of you. You mean the world to me."
Serena returned the sentiment.
"I really would like to take this moment to congratulate Venus," she said. "She's an amazing person. There's no way I'd be at 23 without her. There's no way I'd be at one."
Venus made her deepest run in a Slam draw since the 2009 Wimbledon final, when she also lost to Serena. But to compete in this crucible, Venus needed to serve fairly flawlessly. Her serve was broken four times Saturday.
Asked if it felt awkward to be on the receiving end of so many losses to her sister, Venus didn't flinch.
"No, because I guess I've been here before," she said. "I really enjoy seeing the name Williams on the trophy. This is a beautiful thing."
When they posed for the obligatory prematch photos, Venus smiled and flashed her teeth; Serena smiled a coy, tight-lipped smile.
Serena's nerves emerged with those early double-faults and the cracked racket, but her break of Venus' serve in the seventh game proved to be the difference.
There has never been a front-runner like Serena. She is now 21-0 after winning the first set in a major final. After the fourth game of the first set, Serena didn't face another break point in the 1-hour, 22-minute match.
In the second set, the seventh game again proved unlucky for Venus, who was broken to give Serena the decisive edge.
Serena Williams' Australian Open championship makes her the only woman to win seven titles at multiple Grand Slam events.
Most titles at single Grand Slam
Women in Open era
The matchup between 36-year-old Venus and 35-year-old Serena was the oldest for a women's major final in the Open era, with a combined 71 years, 11 months. Serena also became the oldest Slam winner in the Open era at 35 years, 124 days.
She now has a 17-11 career record against her sister, including a 10-5 advantage at Grand Slams and a 7-2 edge in Slam finals.
It was 19 years ago that they first met here in Melbourne, with Venus winning a second-round match. In 2003, they played their first Australian Open final, and a steely Serena escaped with a three-set win.
After Venus' final errant shot, Serena fell back awkwardly and sat down. Venus came running to her side of the net and wrapped her arms around her little sister. They held on for what seemed like a long, long time.
When Venus won a match this fortnight, Serena felt a sense of urgency to win her own. The match over, they chatted nonstop while posing with their respective trophies.
"She's the only reason the Williams sisters exist," Serena said, "inspiring me to be the best player I can be."
ESPN Stats & Information and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
This story appears in the Feb. 27 issue of ESPN The Magazine.
You watch the protests. You hear them outside your window in your small town and watch them on TV, millions marching across the globe on Jan. 21.
You talk with a man you've known since the 11th grade -- white, respectable, of unremarkable wealth or accomplishment yet carrying a learned smugness, completely secure in the legitimacy of his status -- who you discover is offended more by the vulgarity of the protest signs than the vulgarity that created them. Fortified by the protections and perks of maleness in perpetuity, he speaks of the women as a minor inconvenience, a moth on his tweed.
"It was a moment, not a movement," he tells you. "It changed nothing."
You know this comment, after a lifetime of diminishment, should carry no value, and yet it remains inside you, eats at you. During this same conversation, he tells you of his "loss of respect" for civil rights icon John Lewis, and you know then that this person you've known for decades is not only talking about the women marching. He's talking about you too.
You watch the Australian Open championship final between Venus and Serena Williams with this tumult in mind, and when Venus' ball lands in the doubles alley and Serena becomes a champion again, "It was a moment, not a movement" rises up like bile, and you wonder if the day will ever come when the presence of Venus and Serena will not feel like defiance. But you know better. It will not.
Serena Williams made it officially clear with another Australian Open championship that she is the greatest female tennis player ever.
With a win over Venus Williams at the 2017 Australian Open, Serena Williams extended her incredible run of greatness. A timeline of her Grand Slam titles.
Serena Williams has done it -- she's won her record 23rd Grand Slam title. Those closest to her share stories of her unparalleled ambition and her pursuit to become tennis' greatest competitor.
You see the hug at the net and the tears of the fans. The humanity of it all. You want to trust that this breathtaking show of respect for these two champions is part of the natural ritual of sports -- swords falling as the twilight nears, ceremonial respect for the athlete's journey becoming a final, unifying act -- but you cannot shake the slights. The latest occurred during her second-round match against Stefanie Voegele, with the way ESPN commentator Doug Adler described Venus' strategy in attacking the second serve. Adler said he was referring to the word "guerrilla" when talking about how she moved to the net, but after all the years when Venus and Serena have had their looks and sexuality questioned, the clarification is unconvincing. Gorillas charge, guerrillas sneak-attack.
You watch the final, and if you have eyes and a heart, you see just how different and difficult and brilliant these matches really are. You see Serena turn her back to her sister after a point to show her emotion; against any other opponent, that emotion would not be so cloaked. She will scream "COME ON!" at Victoria Azarenka, but she will not embarrass her sister. You see Venus, overmatched but knowing she is playing at a championship level against any other opponent but her sister, flashing the resolve of a legend but resigned to grace in defeat --partially. During her runner-up speech, she reminds the audience of her pride of family. "Serena Williams, that's my little sister, guys," Venus says. She receives compliments for being gracious and elegant; she is both elegant and protective. Even in their finals, it was never one against the other, but two against everyone.
You see the enormous pressure the sisters put on each other with their serves because they know a weak serve will be a pummeled one. As you watch the 24-shot second-set rally, you realize the legacy of Venus and Serena cannot be located in either of their trophy cases or in the tired, confining narratives of mentioning their influence only when a new young black girl hits the scene. Their legacy is in 6-foot-2, all-legs-and-power Maria Sharapova; 6-foot, all-legs-and-power Garbine Muguruza; in the devastating cross-court forehand of 6-1 CoCo Vandeweghe. Their legacy stands in all of the athletic big hitters who now define the women's game. The Williams sisters are the measure of the women's game, and if you can't hit with them, you can't play. Venus and Serena, somewhat sadly, have forever diminished the championship hopes of the waifish and the crafty, the Agnieszka Radwanskas and Carla Suarez Navarros, who before the arrival of the sisters might very well have held up multiple Grand Slam trophies. There will be youngsters weeded out of the game earlier because they lack the power unnecessary in 1987 but critical in 2017. You see a sport revolutionized; you see not just generations of black girls but the wealth of Eastern Europeans who now inhabit the sport. You see legacy in action.
You also see the patriarchy step on the Williamses even when it wants to share the sunshine. Even when it blows them kisses. Serena, in victory, thanked the crowd for its fervor, the tournament for its professionalism, her sister for their blood and her team for their commitment -- but not her new fiancé, Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian, an omission that was mentioned often by broadcasters. In your mind, you flip through the victory speeches you've heard and try to remember a moment when Roger Federer or Rafael Nadal or Andy Murray was chastised for not mentioning his spouse or girlfriend by name. You can find none.
Throughout the fortnight, as the prospect of an all-Williams final creeps toward reality, you hear only one person, the legend Chris Evert, give credit to Richard Williams, the father who had a vision for his daughters that was ridiculed for the overwhelming majority of their story. Richard was the lens through which the sisters were viewed inside and out of the game, the head of the family that didn't belong, until the championship trophies and gold medals were piled so high the critics finally had to surrender.
You remember the first time you really spoke to Richard Williams, in June 2012, at Wimbledon, when he smoked those skinny cigarettes, when it was just the two of you on the deck between the players area and media center, when he told you players should spend less time on the court and more time learning geometry because tennis really is a game of angles, as every opponent of Serena's has discovered the hard way. He talked about his daughters, and about the family not being wanted by the blue bloods of tennis, and you knew by the way his eyes drew sharper, fixed on you -- older black man to younger one in the United Kingdom -- that he was really talking about the American blueprint for anyone who isn't white, how you don't get to be smug because you're not protected by perks in perpetuity, that you never get to be so secure in the legitimacy of your status that you can determine for other people what is a movement and what is a moment.
"There was only one way: Win," Richard Williams said, and when the sisters are standing on the podium in Melbourne, you see their excellence triumph once again, their blood vindicated, as a family. "Win and make them deal with us. Win and they have to give you a seat at the table, even if they don't want you there."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Five years since he quit playing the sport at a professional level and moved out of India, Karan Rastogi is helping a fledgling tennis nation touch new milestones, shape its future and rediscovering his own potential as a player.
On Sunday, Hong Kong turned to their Indian hope. It proved to be winning.
Tied 2-2 against Vietnam in their Davis Cup Asia/Oceania Group II tie, the side fielded its senior-most player Karan Rastogi in the deciding fifth rubber. Though Rastogi conceded the tiebreak in the opening set against Nguyen Hoang Thien, he bludgeoned the 21-year-old over the following three sets to take Hong Kong into the group semi-finals - the farthest the South eastern Chinese nation has trudged in the annual team competition since 2006.
"The plan was to rest me on the first day and have me play, if the situation so arose, on the final day," Karan, 30, who was part of the Indian side in Davis Cup ties between 2004-2011, told ESPN from Ho Chi Minh City. On Saturday, Karan along with partner Kevin Wong had handed the side a 2-1 lead before Vietnam drew level after the first reverse singles. Captain Mike Walker knew it was time to whip out his trump card for the final reverse singles - Rastogi, 30, who served as coach of Hong Kong's Davis Cup and Fed Cup sides till 2016 and continues to train their national players.
Plagued by injuries, Rastogi called time on his professional career when he was just 25. Doubles, he reckons as an afterthought, was a facet that discovered at the fag end of his professional career. He could have hung around in the circuit for longer had he switched to doubles, but the idea didn't seem compelling enough nor did he have the funds. Briefly coaching in Mumbai after his retirement, he was soon invited by the Hong Kong Tennis Association (HKTA) for a year's stint as coach. "In ten months' time, we spoke again and I liked the role and realised that I could make a difference," he says. A fledgling tennis nation, Hong Kong's highest-ranked singles player Jack Wong is ranked 905.
According to the International Tennis Federation (ITF) regulations, a player should not have represented any country in the Davis Cup for two years and should be a resident of a country for which he wishes to play, for two years before he can be included in the national side.
Rastogi last represented India in an away tie against Serbia in 2011. He moved to Hong Kong the following year and was named Davis Cup coach in 2013. After completion of two years as coach the HKTA proposed that he play for the Davis Cup side. It was an offer he wasn't keen on refusing. "I said to myself 'why not' and spent some time getting into shape," he says. He made his first Davis Cup appearance as a player for Hong Kong against Iran in July last year, before fashioning the side's promotion into Group II.
"It's a little different for me with regard to where I am now in life and my career," explains Rastogi, who's represented Hong Kong as a player in five Davis Cup ties so far. "Before being a player was pretty much my day job so it was a lot more pressure. I coach six hours a day now so I just have a couple of hours if I have to practice. I don't want to push my body too hard. When we were training in Thailand before this Davis Cup tie I pulled a stomach muscle. I know I can't last as long as I could a decade ago so I pick my battles well, am a lot smarter on court and think more clearly. Today there's no need for me to spend six hours on court. A good two-hour session is enough. Now coaching the national team is my full time job and I try and play when I can. I have nothing to lose."
His teammates in Hong Kong's Davis Cup side are those who have been coached by him from their junior years. It adds to the camaraderie but Rastogi is careful to not overstep. "When I'm in the team as a player I don't overdo the coaching bit. The team has a coach and captain and I like to respect that. Of course on court when I say something they listen to it. I'm open with the players and try to keep the mood light in tense situations."
Over a self-deprecating laugh, Rastogi, who touched a career-best singles ranking of 217 in 2012, recalls an incident during his early Davis Cup years for India when he was named in the reserves for the tie against Pakistan in Mumbai in 2006. "Traditionally the new guy has to do something to initiate himself into the side. At the official dinner at the governor's house, suddenly my name was called out and I was asked to deliver a speech," he reminisces, "I was totally taken by surprise and went up to the stage and mumbled something with the chief minister and 400 other guests in attendance. It was a pretty embarrassing moment but also a great one when I look back today." He played three Davis Cup ties for India, his final one being against Serbia in 2011.
One of the regrets he still carries is over not featuring in any of India's home ties. "All my ties were away ones against tough opponents," he says, "I sometimes wish I had played that one match at home before a home crowd."
On a day that Rastogi steered the Hong Kong side to one of its best showings in a long time, Indian singles players - Yuki Bhambri and Ramkumar Ramanathan -propelled the hosts to an emphatic 4-1 win over New Zealand. Winning all its four singles matches, the sole point India conceded was in the doubles - an indication of greater quality and depth in the side now as opposed to the scenario a decade ago. "At least we're winning our singles rubbers now. Ten years ago we were just relying on Leander (Paes) and Mahesh (Bhupathi) to win in the doubles. India needs to utilise the talent it has now. If the players stay motivated, are surrounded by the right people and remain injury-free I don't see why they can't do better," he says.
The biggest challenge for Rastogi after shifting base from India to Hong Kong though was realigning his expectations and coming to terms with sport being viewed largely as a medium to gain admission into foreign universities. "At the start I was hoping to make tennis of the same level or better than what it is in India. After a while, I had to adjust my expectations. Some players had no idea as to what it takes to be at the ATP level or winning Davis Cup matches," he adds. "It's definitely frustrating when you train kids who you know are talented enough to turn pro, but choose a different path. At some level you can't blame them because the competition in tennis is ruthless. Things are gradually changing now. It's a slow process, but we're getting there."
What helped him in the transition phase was the predominant Asian culture that conjoins India with countries such as Hong Kong - that of a reverential attitude towards coaches. "It was a lot similar to India that way unlike the brash attitude of kids in Europe and America," he says, "It made my integration into the Hong Kong tennis set-up a lot easier."
In his first year as coach, the Hong Kong side moved up to Group II before finding themselves relegated the following year. A lasting impact though he's made in the side is in the doubles area. "Our doubles results have improved vastly, be it the juniors, Futures events or in the Davis Cup. I think that's one serious difference I've been able to make so far thanks to my innate skills as an Indian player."
Among the relatively lesser-known and probably proud instances of his life is beating Maria Sharapova twice, the second time coming just after she'd won her maiden Grand Slam in 2004. At the Nick Bolliteiri academy of tennis in Florida when most male players queued up in awe to see the newly-crowned Wimbledon champion, Rastogi, who was training there on an IMG contract, was game for a match against her. He ended up beating her 6-2, 6-2. The previous year too he had a measure of her - winning the first set of a practice match before the Russian teenager's father took her off the court when he was 1-0 up in the second."I think I surprised quite a few people that day," he says over a chuckle.
His fairly sound knowledge of Indian players also often comes in handy. Suffering their first-ever Fed Cup defeat against Hong Kong, coached by Rastogi, in 2014, India had to stay put in Group II of the Asia/Oceania competition. Both of India's top players -Ankita Raina and Prarthana Thombare - lost to unheralded, lowly-ranked opponents. "I knew all the Indian players well and was familiar with their style of play which helped us a lot," he says.
Five years since he quit playing the sport at a professional level, Rastogi acknowledges that he's matured as a player and given the right opportunity, he would love to return to India and make a difference in the tennis scenario back home.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tennis umpire Arnaud Gabas has undergone surgery on a fractured bone under his left eye after being hit by Denis Shapovalov in Canada's Davis Cup tie against Great Britain.
Shapovalov smashed a ball in anger during the third set of the deciding rubber against Kyle Edmund, hitting Gabas in the eye and was immediately defaulted. The 17-year-old was fined 7,000 US dollars (£5,600) by the International Tennis Federation.
Gabas was taken to Ottawa General Hospital after the incident, and no damage to the cornea or retina was found. But upon his return to France, a further examination revealed Gabas had sustained a fracture.
Andy Murray believes Denis Shapovalov hitting an umpire in the eye with a ball during a Davis Cup match last weekend was a "wake-up call" for all players.
Denis Shapovalov has been fined $7,000 (£5,623) after hitting umpire Arnaud Gabas in the eye with a ball during Canada's Davis Cup tie against Great Britain.
Umpire Arnaud Gabas said he "came off the court looking like Rocky Balboa" after being hit in the eye by a tennis ball struck by Denis Shapovalov.
"Chair umpire Arnaud Gabas has undergone successful surgery in France to repair a fracture of the orbital bone under his left eye," a statement released by the ITF on Sunday read.
"The fracture was detected when doctors performed X-rays upon Mr Gabas's return from Ottawa, where he was unintentionally hit by a ball during the Davis Cup by BNP Paribas World Group tie between Canada and Great Britain on Feb. 5.
"Mr. Gabas is now back at his home and is in good spirits. His doctors have recommended that he undertake a period of rest and recovery."
There was no intent on Shapovalov's part to hit Gabas but the outcome was an immediate default, handing Britain victory and a Davis Cup quarterfinal away in France in April. The Canadian apologised immediately and then sought Gabas out again in the referee's office.
"I would like to thank my doctors for their excellent support," Gabas added in the ITF statement. "The surgery was successful and I am now concentrating on rest and rehabilitation so I can be back on court in the near future.
"I would also like to express my sincere gratitude for all the messages of support I have received from around the world.''
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEW YORK -- Genie Bouchard kept her word -- and then some -- after the Atlanta Falcons' epic collapse in Super Bowl LI.
The Canadian tennis star and now swimsuit model sat courtside at a Brooklyn Nets game Wednesday night with a fan who asked her on Twitter for a date if the New England Patriots won the Super Bowl.
Just met my 'Super Bowl Twitter Date' John 😊 On our way to the @BrooklynNets game! @punslayintwoods pic.twitter.com/DHRgY46smd
Bouchard tweeted during the Super Bowl that she knew the Falcons would win. A fan named John Goehrke responded to her by writing "if patriots win we go on a date?" and she responded "Sure."
Who could have imagined that one four-letter word -- "sure" -- would lead to all this? Eugenie Bouchard takes us behind the scenes of her high-profile date.
The Falcons then blew a 25-point lead as the Patriots rallied to win in overtime, and Bouchard agreed to keep her word. In New York for ceremonies tied to the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue, in which she appears, she met Goehrke earlier Wednesday, and they sat together for the game against the Milwaukee Bucks, even walking on the court and throwing some souvenir balls into the stands.
After the date, Bouchard told TMZ that  she had planned the date, but that "for sure" she'd have a second date with Goehrke.
"He's normal," Bouchard said. ""He's a normal man. ... It's complete luck. I'm so lucky."
Last night... 😘 pic.twitter.com/Vu3DYgYSBh
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -- Ryan Harrison beat fellow American Donald Young 6-4, 6-4 in 90 minutes Saturday night at the Memphis Open semifinals, finally advancing to his first career final in his eighth try.
"I certainly didn't expect it to be six years until I got here,'' Harrison said. "Nevertheless, I guess that's why it's a good thing my career got started early. Now I feel like things are coming together, and I'm not 32 or 33, I'm 24. So I think there's a lot of room for improvement. I don't think that I'm playing to the best of my ability."
Harrison failed to convert four match points as Young broke him in the eighth game of the second set before holding serve to win. Harrison finished serving up his fifth ace on his fifth match point. He credited Young, who leaves Memphis still looking for his first career ATP World Tour title, with raising his play.
"I lost four match points, but I didn't play a bad point," Harrison said.
Harrison will play Nikoloz Basilashvili of Georgia, a 7-6 (5), 6-1 winner over Mikhail Kukushkin of Kazakhstan, for the championship Sunday. Someone will leave Memphis with his first ATP title for the first time at this event since Joachim Johansson in 2004. He'll be the second on the tour this year to win his first. Gilles Muller won his first title in Sydney last month.
This marked the first time in this tournament's 41-year history without a seeded player in the semifinals and the first on tour since 2013 in Nice. Kukushkin came into the semifinals as the only player with a title to his credit, 2010 at St. Petersburg. But he could not overcome Basilashvili.
Young ousted No. 2 seed John Isner in three sets Friday night to reach his second semifinal here in three years, but Delray Beach in 2015 remains the last final he reached. Harrison hadn't played a semifinal since Acapulco in 2015.
Harrison broke Young in the fifth game of the first set and served out to win. In the second set, Harrison broke Young in the first game and again to go up 4-1 and was up 5-1. Up 5-2, Harrison had match point before Young broke him. Harrison had three match points trying to break Young who fought back from 0-40 to hold serve.
But Harrison, who could become the first American winner in Memphis since Andy Roddick in 2011, didn't allow a point to finish the match.
This will move Harrison back into the top 50 of the rankings for the first time since he was 43rd in July 2012.
"It's all surreal," Harrison said.
Basilashvili, trying to be the first from the country of Georgia to win an ATP World Tour title, needed 1 hour, 46 minutes to reach his first final since 2016 Kitzbuehel, and he advanced by attacking Kukushkin's serve and eventually wearing him down in a match where he had 14 break points. Basilashvili said he was surprised he did not lose focus during the missed opportunities.
"I had a lot and could not execute," Basilashvili said. "I was just waiting my moment. On the set point, I just played really good."
Kukushkin broke Basilashvili's serve to go up 2-0 only to be broken himself. Basilashvili took the first set in the tiebreaker after Kukushkin held serve on nine break points. Basilashvili went up 6-4 in the tiebreaker with a backhand winner into the corner, then won set point when Kukushkin hit into the net.
Ranked 67th in the ATP rankings, Basilashvili then broke Kukushkin to go up 2-0 in the second set and again to take a 5-1 lead before holding serve for the match.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Serena Williams posted a photo of herself standing sideways with the caption "20 weeks" on Snapchat on Wednesday, then deleted it -- prompting widespread speculation that the 23-time major champion is pregnant.
Williams, 35, did not comment beyond the photo and two-word caption.
"We have not been informed nor do we have confirmation [that Serena is pregnant]. We will let you know once we have further information," the WTA said in a statement.
Williams got engaged to Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian in December.
Williams hasn't played since winning the Australian Open in late January. She pulled out of her next two scheduled events -- Indian Wells and Miami -- citing a left knee injury. Her only other tournament this year was in Auckland, New Zealand, where she lost in the round of 16.
Tennis' next major event is the French Open, which begins on May 28. If Williams is, in fact, 20 weeks pregnant, she would be due in early September.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Michael Smith and Jemele Hill agree that Serena Williams has nothing left to prove in tennis but can see her returning to the game someday. (0:55)
It's another love game for Serena Williams: She is pregnant, and based on the timeline she offered, she already was when she won the Australian Open.
A spokeswoman for Williams, Kelly Bush Novak, wrote in an email to ESPN and other media outlets Wednesday: "I'm happy to confirm Serena is expecting a baby this fall."
The 23-time major champion will not play again in 2017 due to her pregnancy and plans to return in 2018.
Williams posted a photo of herself standing sideways with the caption "20 weeks" on Snapchat earlier Wednesday then deleted it.
Williams, 35, did not comment beyond the photo and two-word caption.
She announced in late December that she was engaged to Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian.
Williams hasn't played since winning the Australian Open in January -- a little less than 12 weeks ago. She pulled out of her next two scheduled events at Indian Wells and Miami, citing a left knee injury. Her only other tournament this year was in Auckland, New Zealand, where she lost in the round of 16.
If anyone is uniquely qualified to handle motherhood and another epic comeback, it's Serena Williams.
Angelique Kerber, Victoria Azarenka and Andy Roddick join in the celebration.
Serena Williams can have whatever she wants in the world, but we're offering up a list of baby gifts anyway.
Tennis' next major tournament is the French Open, which starts May 28. Wimbledon begins in early July, and the US Open is in late August. If Williams is 20 weeks pregnant, she would be due in early September.
"We're excited for Serena," WTA CEO Steve Simon said in a statement. "This is wonderful news and we wish her the very best. We'll look forward to seeing her when she's back competing again."
There is recent precedent for tennis players to return to action after becoming mothers. Kim Clijsters retired briefly to start a family then came back to tennis and won three Grand Slam titles. Victoria Azarenka, a former No. 1 and major champion, has announced she will be getting back on tour after having a baby last year.
Williams' 23 Grand Slam singles titles are a record for the Open era, which began in 1968. She broke a tie with Steffi Graf after winning the Australian Open. Only one woman has won more: Margaret Smith Court, who claimed some of her 24 titles during the amateur era.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report. 
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
After spending a few days practicing on clay courts in Switzerland, a healthy and well-rested Roger Federer settled on his upcoming schedule: He will bypass the French Open and turn his focus to Wimbledon, then the U.S. Open.
"It was a tough decision to take, because he likes to play the French Open, likes to play the big tournaments,'' Severin Luthi, who coaches Federer, said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press on Monday. "But I think it was the best decision for him. It's an investment in his career _ for this season and for the coming seasons.''
Federer posted a message entitled "Roger to skip Roland Garros'' on his website on Monday, announcing that he will stay away from competing on clay entirely in 2017 and instead will prepare for the grass- and hard-court events that follow.
"I've been working really hard, both on and off the court, during the last month,'' Federer wrote, "but in order to try and play on the ATP World Tour for many years to come, I feel it's best to skip the clay court season this year.''
It's the second year in a row that Federer pulled out of the French Open, where main-draw play begins in Paris on May 28. He won the title at the clay-court major in 2009 to complete a career Grand Slam.
His absence a year ago, because of back and knee problems that plagued him in 2016, ended his record streak of appearing in 65 consecutive Grand Slam tournaments _ every one since the start of 2000.
Now, though, the owner of a record 18 major championships feels great.
And he wants to keep it that way.
Rafael Nadal continued his impressive form heading into the French Open, winning his third straight title on clay Sunday with a 7-6 (8), 6-4 victory over Dominic Thiem in the Madrid Open final.
"We are in a good situation. He is [healthier than he's] been in the last five years. We could take the decision out of a position of strength,'' Luthi said about pulling out of the French Open.
"We talked a few times about it but wanted to give ourselves time to think about it,'' he added. "We spoke again yesterday and made the final decision today.''
Luthi said Federer plans to play at two grass-court tournaments in Germany -- at Stuttgard starting June 12, and at Halle the week after that -- before heading to Wimbledon, where play begins on July 3.
The 35-year-old Federer has not played in a tournament since April 2, when he won his third title of 2017 at the Miami Open and improved his record this year to 19-1, all on hard courts, his best start in more than a decade. At the time, he said he would be taking a break from the tour and did not commit to returning in time for the French Open.
"The start to the year has been magical for me but I need to recognize that scheduling will be the key to my longevity moving forward,'' Federer wrote. "Thus, my team and I concluded today that playing just one event on clay was not in the best interest of my tennis and physical preparation for the remainder of the season.''
Clay tends to be the most physically demanding of tennis' surfaces, requiring plenty of tricky movement and sliding, along with lengthy, grind-it-out points.
Federer's great rival and the man known as the King of Clay, Rafael Nadal, has been back to his dominant self on the red stuff lately, compiling a 15-match winning streak and three consecutive titles, including at the Madrid Open on Sunday. That has made Nadal the favorite to collect a record 10th trophy at Roland Garros, which would be his 15th overall at majors, three away from Federer.
Luthi said Federer didn't take Nadal's recent play -- or anyone else's -- into account as he weighed his options.
"It's really more a decision about him than the others,'' Luthi said. "It would be a mistake to look at them too much.''
Federer missed the last half of 2016, including the Rio de Janeiro Olympics and the U.S. Open, because of his surgically repaired left knee. He started this season the best way possible, winning the Australian Open in January.
As for Paris, if there were those worrying about whether they might have seen the last of the Swiss superstar there, Federer offered a message about the future.
"I will miss the French fans, who have always been so supportive,'' Federer said, "and I look forward to seeing them at Roland Garros next year.''
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS -- There's something about the cloying clay of Roland Garros this year that's leaving players both wounded and distraught.
David Goffin, the No. 10 seed, caught his foot under the tarp that was folded up at the back of the court while chasing down a ball deep behind the baseline. He injured his right ankle and had to retire from his third-round match against Horacio Zeballos.
Novak Djokovic lost 18 games over five sets, but still advanced to the fourth round of the French Open. Rafael Nadal, meanwhile, lost just one game Friday.
The Belgian went down immediately and held his ankle. He laid there for a few minutes in noticeable agony before officials helped him off the court.
"He had an MRI, and the news is reassuring: There is no tearing of the ligaments and no bone that's been broken, either," said Goffin's coach, Thierry van Cleemput.
"For the time being, we're optimistic," he said, adding that Goffin will stay in Paris for a couple of days of treatment before heading home to Belgium.
Zeballos, the 65th-ranked Argentine, stopped at Goffin's changeover station to grab his bags and carry them off the court. Goffin was leading 5-4 in the first set at the time.
Goffin was a quarterfinalist last year at the French Open.
This incident followed the painful and emotional exit of Nicolas Almagro, who injured his knee and was forced to quit Thursday against Juan Martin del Potro, another Argentine.
Like Zeballos, del Potro's first reaction was to aid his fallen opponent. In a gesture that has now gone viral, del Potro consoled a tearful Almagro.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS -- When Serena Williams announced she was pregnant and when Maria Sharapova was not given a wild card into the French Open, it didn't take a genius to suggest that Simona Halep, the 2014 runner-up, would be the most likely to take the trophy.
Armed with her new positive attitude thanks to some sharp words from coach Darren Cahill, with whom she made a swift reunion after a brief break, Halep has coped with the pressure well and battled through to a second Grand Slam final.
Get the 2017 French Open tennis tournament's dates, TV schedule, news coverage, live scores and results on ESPN.
Jelena Ostapenko became the first unseeded women's finalist at the French Open in more than 30 years by beating Timea Bacsinszky on Thursday.
She will be expected to win against an unseeded opponent in Saturday's final, but in Jelena Ostapenko she will face a woman who Chris Evert, the former world No. 1 and ESPN analyst who is working for ITV during the French Open, said is "something special."
"I was around watching [Martina] Hingis come up and [Steffi] Graf come up and [Monica] Seles come up, and I just see something special in this young lady and the fact that she's so fearless," Evert said of Ostapenko. "But what I like even more is her hunger, and you can see it on her face. She really wants this badly and is going to go to any length to win. I love that attitude, and it's the attitude with the power and the short angles -- she has a game to back it up. I think she's very special."
Here are a few fun facts about Ostapenko.
Her forehand is faster than Andy Murray's.
French TV flashed up a great stat during Ostapenko's semifinal win Thursday over Timea Bacsinszky, showing the speed of various players' forehands during this year's tournament. Ostapenko's average was 76 mph (122 kph). That is 2 mph faster than ATP world No. 1 Murray, whose forehand is not too shabby, and, wait for it, just 3 mph slower than Rafael Nadal, who has built his career on his forehand. "Normally, my backhand is my favorite shot," Ostapenko said with a smile. "But I was working on the forehand, and I think it's pretty good now."
She hits more winners than anyone.
In her six matches so far at this year's French Open, Ostapenko has crunched 245 winners. She's also made a lot of unforced errors -- 217 -- but her winners come at big moments, and the power of her groundstrokes, both forehand and backhand, have drawn gasps from the crowd. And to put it into context, 50 winners is enough to win two full sets (and the first two points of a third).
She has a total lack of fear.
Even when she misses, Ostapenko never stops going for her shots. It's a habit that players tend to grow out of, when the importance of winning changes, but for now she goes for broke.
As Bacsinszky said after losing 7-6 (4), 3-6, 6-3: "She's 20. Not afraid of anything. She doesn't measure maybe what she's doing right now. She probably doesn't care.
"The best example is the match point. I serve very well wide. She's hitting as hard as she can down the line from nowhere. It comes that [high] above the net and in the corner. I mean, who tries that? Seriously? I mean, it's like 1 out of 10. But she does it. So we'll see if she does it at 28 years old."
She is trying to make history.
The Latvian is best known for winning the 2014 junior Wimbledon title and for being a bit feisty on court at times, although she has yet to win a WTA Tour title. The last woman to win her first title in a Grand Slam event was Australian Chris O'Neil at the 1978 Australian Open, and the last man to do it was Gustavo Kuerten at Roland Garros in 1997. Kuerten won that title -- the first of his three French Opens -- on June 8, the day Ostapenko was born. And as the first Latvian to make a Grand Slam singles final, she is making a nice bit of history for her country, too.
If she wins, she'll be one of the biggest outsiders ever to take the title.
Westgate Las Vegas Superbook made Ostapenko 100-1 to win the title before the French Open began. Even those odds were pretty stingy, given that she was unseeded and had never been past the third round of any Grand Slam. Goran Ivanisevic, who won Wimbledon in 2001 as a 150-1 wild card, would be proud.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Rafael Nadal spoke after a dominant performance that dismissed Dominic Thiem 6-3, 6-4, 6-0 to advance to his 10th Roland Garros final. (3:02)
It was as ugly as it was thrilling. But in the end, as Stan Wawrinka stood on Court Philippe Chatrier in exultation, pointing to his head, it was about big-match acuity.
Wawrinka took out Andy Murray in a 4-hour, 34-minute marathon Friday to reach the French Open final. Wawrinka, one of the most fearless hitters in the game, donated an obscene amount of unforced errors, 77 in all, and still beat the world No. 1.
After all the buildup, the fifth set was anticlimactic, with Wawrinka breaking Murray four times. If that doesn't speak to acing a pressure situation, we're not sure what does.
Wawrinka's reward (or is it a cruel joke?): Rafael Nadal in the final. But we'll get to that in a moment.
For now, let's take a deeper dive into Wawrinka's latest and greatest win, thanks to our unstoppable Stats & Information gang:
Won his fourth career match over a No. 1 in Grand Slam play; only Nadal (8) and Boris Becker (5) have more
Improves to 26-20 in tour-level career in five-setters; the only active player who has played more five-setters is his countryman Roger Federer
Improves to 9-2 in five-setters at the French Open, his best five-set record at any of the four major tournaments
Despite all the errors Friday, Wawrinka smacked 87 winners as well, equaling the total of his three previous matches combined
Not bad for an old guy, eh? Check out this piece of info:
And if that doesn't impress you, perhaps this will?
Wawrinka has won all three major finals he's played. Only one player in the Open era has had a longer winning streak in Grand Slam finals. You might know him by the name of Roger Federer.
Fed's streak happened to be his first seven finals. Since then, though, Federer has not strung together more than three straight wins in majors, largely because of one person (see next paragraph).
Hello, Nadal. The overwhelming sentiment is that he will roll over Wawrinka come Sunday. A nine-time French Open champ, Nadal needed just over two hours to take out Dominic Thiem 6-3, 6-4, 6-0. Nadal has yet to drop a set through six matches. Not only that, but no opponent has taken more than four games in a single set. That's utter domination -- even for the most prolific clay-court player ever.
Yes, this year's French Open stats scream advantage, Rafa. But keep this in mind: Wawrinka has never lost a Grand Slam final in three tries. He revels in the moment.
"The most important is when you enter the courts to focus on what you do, what you did in the practice court," Wawrinka said afterward. "Try to just focus on the game, point by point. And that's the only way you can win a Grand Slam final."
Rafa, take note. It's not a done deal. Not yet, anyway.
The United States hasn't churned out a dominant male singles player in quite some time. The last American major winner was Andy Roddick -- 13 years, nine months and one day ago (not that we're counting) at the 2003 US Open. And the last Yank to win a major on clay? Andre Agassi in 1999.
It must be noted, though, that while American futility on the men's side has become a thing in singles, the U.S. brigade has become quite stalwart in doubles. Yes, the Bryan brothers (Bob and Mike) are the most accomplished team of all time, with 16 Slam titles, but even with this dynamic duo out of Roland Garros, the USA is still being represented well. Even better news: No matter what happens in Saturday's final, someone from the U.S. will walk away with a championship trophy.
On Friday, American Ryan Harrison and New Zealander Michael Venus beat Juan Sebastian Cabal and Robert Farah to reach the French Open doubles final.
That means Harrison and Venus will play the United States' Donald Young and his partner, Santiago Gonzalez, for the title. If you're wondering, the last American French Open doubles winner not named Mike or Bob was Jonathan Stark, who, with Byron Black, won Roland Garros in 1994 -- the same year Eugenie Bouchard was born, for what that's worth.
.@ryanharrison92 and Kiwi Michael Venus continue their dream run into the Roland Garros SF over Dodig/Granollers 6-2, 3-6, 6-3! #USTennis pic.twitter.com/01VBMiI8ex
Back to the Americans singles players on clay. We mentioned it hasn't exactly been a stellar run. Imagine if one had to play Rafa on clay.
Thank god I didn't ever play Rafa on clay. Oh and oh and oh and oh and oh
I did ......   it sucked https://t.co/ndt4IIQSC9
Bah hahahaha https://t.co/ZHHeiY0T3Z
So there's that.
All in all, considering that there were only two matches, it was a long day of tennis. Not that we're complaining, but sheesh, we are hungry.
Snack time! 🍌🥤#RG17 pic.twitter.com/tD4iCYfDRf
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Whitney Osuigwe says she didn't know why Margie Zesinger had summoned her to the IMG Academy's main tennis stadium earlier this month. Osuigwe had just returned home the day before as the newly minted French Open junior girls' champion. Her coach's text message was cryptic.
What Osuigwe (o-SEE-gway) saw when she entered the stadium at the Bradenton, Florida, training facility made her jaw drop -- and then a wide smile spread across the 15-year-old's face. IMG's coaches had formed two lines on the court, facing each other, and held up tennis rackets to form an arch. Her French Open trophy was perched on a table, and a daisy bouquet -- pink, her favorite color -- lay next to the trophy. Her favorite song, "Girl on Fire" by Alicia Keys, played on the speakers. Osuigwe walked under the arch of rackets while shaking hands with the coaches and soaking in the moment.
While other academy athletes sat in the bleachers watching, Osuigwe noticed that Japanese star Kei Nishikori had stopped his practice on the adjacent court to check out the spectacle. Her family was there, too, watching it unfold with a look of pride on their faces.
This moment was everything to her, affirmation that she had taken a huge step in the world of tennis -- winning a junior Grand Slam.
Her 18-year-old brother, DeAndre, who'd driven the trophy over to the academy earlier in the day, said to her, "Whitney, this is just the beginning."
Osuigwe has come a long way since first stepping onto a court when she was around 3 years old. Her fashion sense has come a long way, too.
"She started playing tennis wearing boots and Cinderella clothes," said Desmond Osuigwe, Whitney's father. "She would never get out of those clothes, and it was totally uncoordinated with what she was doing."
Zesinger said people would call Whitney the "Pink Panther" because she would only wear her favorite color and she ran up and down the court as fast as a jungle cat.
When Whitney was 6 years old, she started beating DeAndre. That's when Desmond realized his daughter had the potential to play professionally -- and it wasn't just parental optimism, because Desmond happens to be a longtime tennis coach at IMG. That meant it was time for Whitney to enroll full time at the academy and spend eight hours training and two hours in the gym daily.
According to Zesinger, Whitney was the youngest and smallest player in her group -- many of her cohorts now play Division I tennis -- but was willing to work extra hard to keep up with -- and even surpass -- her older teammates.
Osuigwe, who is 5-foot-6 and will be a high school junior at IMG in the fall, had her first national breakthrough in 2014 in the form of a Junior Orange Bowl championship in the 12-year-old division. In 2015, she won the 14-year-old division at the Easter Bowl. Those victories put her on the map. In 2016, she played junior tournaments exclusively in the highest division, which goes up to age 18, even though she was only 13 at the start of the year, and she's a member of this year's U.S. Junior Fed Cup team.
Initially it was about having fun. Now it is about winning tournaments.
"She really walks around like she is a pro," DeAndre said. Maybe that's because she is a pro, having made it official a few months earlier.
This year has been a dream come true. Osuigwe had ended 2016 at No. 111 in the ITF junior girls' rankings, and victories on clay in Brazil and Paraguay early in 2017 not only prepared her for the surface at Roland Garros, but propelled her into the top 25. The French Open triumph vaulted her to No. 2 in the world.
"I have been working on a couple of tactical things like opening up the court more, moving in and serving better, and I saw myself improve in the last year," said Osuigwe, who likens her style to that of former world No. 1 Victoria Azarenka.
The French Open triumph did not come easy for Osuigwe, the ninth-youngest champion in the tournament's history and the first American to win the event since Jennifer Capriati in 1989. She endured three three-setters on her way to the June 10 final against fellow American Claire Liu, who is 17 years old and had crushed Osuigwe 6-1, 6-1 in a tournament just two months earlier. After splitting the first two sets of the rematch, with Liu winning the second in a tiebreaker, Osuigwe ran out to a 5-1 lead in the final set before finishing off a 6-4, 6-7 (5), 6-3 victory.
"Many players play it safe when they are down, but Whitney thrives off of the pressure," Zesinger said. "She knows how to play risky tennis in pressure situation."
A lot of young players let the pressure get to them before a big tournament, but Osuigwe oozes calmness unlike anybody else whom her coaches or teammates have seen. And she rarely has mental lapses that lead to a string of bad points.
"You have to stay incredibly focused when you play her," IMG teammate Kylie Mullaney said. "She is consistent but she attacks at the same time."
With fresh confidence from winning in Paris, Osuigwe heads into the Wimbledon junior tournament looking to replicate her clay-court performance on a new surface. In her first grass-court season, Osuigwe will compete in the Roehampton junior event before heading to London to warm up ahead of Wimbledon, where the girls' main draw begins July 8.
It won't just be the surface that will make Wimbledon a new challenge for Osuigwe. As a Grand Slam champion, you can bet her opponents will be extra motivated to take her down.
"Sometimes, the greatest success happens when you kind of go into situations that is a little unknown, and she doesn't have any expectations on how she plays on grass, and so I think it will be a great experience for her," Zesinger said.
After Wimbledon, Osuigwe will get ready for hard-court season and the U.S. Open. And then 2018 will be a crucial year as she furthers her transition from juniors to the highest level of pro tennis.
When she turns 16 next April, she will no longer be limited to participating in 10 women's tournaments a year. Once she can play regularly and her WTA ranking is high enough, she'll be able to enter the qualifying rounds of Grand Slam women's tournaments.
Osuigwe's dream: to win the French Open women's singles title.
"I see her winning at least two or three Grand Slams, and I will be there to cheer her throughout," Mullaney said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HALLE, Germany -- Roger Federer defeated Germany's Alexander Zverev 6-1, 6-3 to win the Gerry Weber Open for the ninth time on Sunday and claim his 92nd career title.
Playing in his 140th career final, Federer saved the only break point he faced and converted four of his eight opportunities to clinch his 92nd career title in 53 minutes.
"I played unbelievably well. I felt good and never let up," said Federer, who dropped just nine points on his serve. "It was my best game this week. Nearly everything worked out for me."
Federer, who skipped the clay-court season after winning the Miami Open in early April, claimed his fourth title of the year, matching Rafael Nadal's tally, and he will be seeded ahead of his Spanish rival for Wimbledon, which starts in eight days.
Federer had already won the Australian Open before titles in Indian Wells and Miami in 2017.
The 18-time Grand Slam champion was surprised by German veteran Tommy Haas on his return from the two-month break last week in Stuttgart but brushed off any doubts over his form in Halle.
Against the 20-year-old Zverev, who lost last year's final to Florian Mayer, Federer raced to a 4-0 lead before wrapping up the first set in 22 minutes. Zverev created his only break chance in the opening game of the second, but ultimately was unable to show why he is regarded as one of the sport's brightest prospects.
"You could have been a bit nicer and allowed me a couple more points," Zverev joked to his idol.
Federer had words of affection for Zverev, who won their semifinal in Halle last year.
"He's a very nice lad. I'm very happy for him, how he's developed in the last years. The future belongs to him," Federer said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
EASTBOURNE, England - Novak Djokovic may be one of tennis' giants but he insists he is "grateful" for any time Andre Agassi feels he can spare as his coach.
Their recently-formed working relationship caused a stir when it was announced last May, with the arrival of a new "supercoach" grabbing the headlines.
But the loose and limited nature of the partnership has had experts, including John McEnroe, question how much difference it can make to a player whose air of invincibility has been shattered.
"Andre has a very busy life," Djokovic told a news conference on Monday.
"He has big family, he lives in West Coast of America. He's got his foundation, his businesses, [he] has many, many things in his life that are consuming a lot of time.
"I appreciate all his consideration to work with me and to be with me."
Britain's Heather Watson overcame a top-10 opponent for just the second time in her career having defeated defending champion Dominika Cibulkova at Eastbourne.
As if Halle champ Roger Federer needed any more assistance, he heads to Wimbledon in top form and with all the confidence in the world.
Agassi's contribution to helping Djokovic out of the slump that has seen him fall from the top of the world rankings to No. 4 seems like something of an afterthought.
The Serbian has accepted a wild card for Eastbourne's Aegon International and is making a rare appearance on grass before Wimbledon, but he did not seem entirely sure when he would next work with his coach.
"It depends," Djokovic said after being asked when Agassi would arrive. "I think he's supposed to arrive for next weekend. So he's going to be there before the tournament [Wimbledon] starts.
"He will stay as long as I stay in the tournament, so that's great news. Obviously Roland Garros, the eight or nine days that we spent together, were very valuable for me to get to know him, to learn from him.
"We shared a lot of experiences on and off the court, things that he has been through that I can relate to and vice versa.
"Having him around is not only great for myself but also for tennis. I can see how much he cares about the game, how much he knows. It was very interesting to hear his perspective, how he analyzes my game and what he sees to improve and try to get back on the level desired.
"I'm just looking forward to spend as much quality time with Andre as I can. We're going with the flow in a way. We don't have anything signed. It's just as much as he can or he feels to be with me. I embrace that, I accept that, and I'm grateful for it."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Garbine Muguruza wasn't going to be derailed by a Williams sister in a Wimbledon final. Not this time.
The Spaniard overcame two set points by Venus Williams to rally and win the first set en route to a 7-5, 6-0 victory over the 37-year-old American, who was bidding to become the oldest woman in the Open era to win a Grand Slam title.
Garbine Muguruza made sure there was no dream Wimbledon final return for Venus Williams. But how did the tide change so drastically in the opening set?
Yes, Garbine Marguruza won Wimbledon, but is she ready to become a consistent winner and the face of the women's game?
Venus Williams lost the Wimbledon final. But she's going to keep pursuing more wins and more Slam titles. You can count on it.
Williams twice was a point away from winning the opening set, ahead 5-4 while Muguruza served at 15-40. On the first set point, a 20-stroke exchange ended when Williams blinked first, putting a forehand into the net. On the second, Williams sent a return long, and Muguruza pumped her fist.
Muguruza, who lost to Serena Williams in the 2015 Wimbledon final, rode that momentum all the way to the championship without losing another game, breaking Venus' serve three times in the second set as part of a nine-game run.
It ended when Williams hit a shot that landed long but was ruled in. Muguruza challenged the call, and after a bit of a delay, the review showed the ball was, indeed, out. Made to wait to celebrate, Muguruza eventually could enjoy the moment, dropping to her knees and covering her face as tears arrived.
"When I was a little girl, I was watching these finals," said the 23-year-old Muguruza. "I was watching Venus -- I know it sounds incredible. To be able to play against her and now hold the big trophy, it means a lot."
It was as if getting out of that jam freed up Muguruza -- and failing to capitalize on the opportunity deflated the 10th-seeded Williams.
Williams began faltering, spraying her shots to unintended spots -- long, wide, into the net -- while the younger, less-experienced Muguruza stayed steady, pounding groundstrokes with all her force. Williams finished with 25 unforced errors to Muguruza's 11.
"She just dug in there and managed to play better," Williams said. "She played really well. I mean, she played top tennis, so I have to give her credit for just playing a better match. ...
"I've been in a position a lot of times this year to contend for big titles. That's the kind of position I want to keep putting myself in. It's just about getting over the line. I believe I can do that."
It was the first time Williams, playing in a 20th Wimbledon, had ever lost a set 6-0 at the All England Club. She hit just 17 winners in the match and was 0-for-3 on break-point opportunities.
Muguruza, meanwhile, converted on four service breaks against Williams, who entered the final having won 12 consecutive service games.
Soon enough, Muguruza was being shown her name on the list of champions in the stadium's lobby -- "Finally!" she said -- and being greeted by former King Juan Carlos of Spain.
The match was played under a closed roof on Centre Court, the first time a women's final had been played indoors.
The 14th-seeded Muguruza, who beat Serena to win the 2016 French Open, is now the first player to beat both Williams sisters in a Grand Slam final.
"I only play against the Williams sisters. It's incredible," Muguruza said. "I like it. It's the best final you can get -- Serena or Venus. And to play [Venus] here ... she has won five times, she's an expert.
"I don't know. Finally a Spanish girl can play on grass."
Muguruza, playing at Wimbledon for a fifth time, dropped the least number of games at this year's tournament, losing only 44 during the fortnight.
She is the second Spanish woman to win Wimbledon, joining her coach, Conchita Martinez, who beat a 37-year-old Martina Navratilova in 1994.
It was an anticlimactic conclusion for Williams, who was the oldest Wimbledon finalist since 1994. Diagnosed in 2011 with Sjogren's syndrome, an energy-sapping autoimmune disease, she learned to deal with that condition by turning to a plant-based diet and altering other routines. It took a while for her to get back to her best tennis.
Her resurgence began in earnest at Wimbledon a year ago, when she made it to the semifinals. Then, at the Australian Open in January, Williams reached the final, where she lost to her sister.
Venus was playing in her ninth Wimbledon singles final, having won five -- in 2000, '01, '05, '07 and '08. She has an overall singles record of 87-15 at Wimbledon.
With the runner-up prize, Venus ($37.9 million) surpassed Maria Sharapova ($36.5 million) for the No. 2 spot on the career money list. Serena is No. 1 at $84.4 million.
Serena is off the tour for the rest of this year because she is pregnant, and Venus spoke this week about missing her and wanting to put "Williams" on a trophy once again.
She came close to achieving that, but Muguruza would not allow it.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEWPORT, R.I. -- Looking around the International Tennis Hall of Fame, Andy Roddick thought about all the things he is not.
Not as good as the historic greats, especially Americans who preceded him into the Newport shrine, such as John McEnroe, Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi. Not as good as the modern Big Four -- Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray -- who stood in the way of his winning more than one Grand Slam.
"I'm not the best of all time. I'm not going to win Wimbledon. I'm not the best of my generation. I'm not the most well-behaved. I'm not the most polished," Roddick said in a speech Saturday that was sometimes funny and sometimes poignant.
"I'm also never going to take this honor for granted," he said. "I may not be a lot of things, but from this day forward, I'm never going to be anything less than a Hall of Famer."
Known for his powerful serve and his often biting wit, Roddick was inducted into the Hall along with Belgian Kim Clijsters, six-time Paralympic medalist Monique Kalkman-van den Bosch and journalist and historian Steve Flink. Tennis instructor and innovator Vic Braden, who died in 2014, was inducted posthumously.
Clijsters won four Grand Slam singles titles and 31 overall, including the 2009 U.S. Open as an unranked, wild-card entry after she came out of retirement after the birth of her daughter.
Hall of Famer Chris Evert presented Flink for induction. She said she developed a friendship with Flink over his career, which started when he was a researcher for Hall of Fame tennis writer Bud Collins. He went on to write books and magazine articles and provide tennis commentary on TV and radio. Evert spoke in awe of Flink's recall for long-ago matches and how he would interrupt her at news conferences when she got details about her own record wrong.
"Steve Flink is being inducted today for a lifetime of making tennis the center of his world," she said.
Kalkman-van den Bosch discussed fighting cancer at age 14 and fearing that she would never play tennis again. Her friends pushed her around on a court in her wheelchair so she could she feel like she was still involved with the sport.
"I'm so fortunate to have tennis in my life," she said. "It's been magic for me."
Andy Roddick and Kim Clijsters, 2017 International Tennis Hall of Fame inductees, don't have any regrets about leaving the game early, even while contemporaries such as Roger Federer and the Williams sisters continue to thrive.
Roddick thanked his several coaches, his father and his wife, Brooklyn Decker, who sat in the stands near fellow model Chrissy Teigen and her husband, singer John Legend. He also congratulated his fellow inductees, joining those who praised Clijsters as a person.
"I have a simple way of putting it," he said. "If you have a problem with Kim Clijsters, I blame you."
Roddick spoke of sneaking into the players' lounge at the U.S. Open when he was 8 years old and playing video games with Sampras, too scared to speak. Eleven years later, they were on the same Davis Cup team.
He said he doesn't play "the 'what-if' game" and wonder what he might have done if he hadn't overlapped with the Big Four.
"It sucked being in your vacuum at times. I still consider myself lucky," said Roddick, who lost to Federer in a Grand Slam final four times. "I got to guard Jordan. I went the distance with Ali. I pitched to Babe Ruth. I feel like I know what it must have been like to watch Picasso. I saw it all.
"I won a couple times -- not a lot but a couple," he said. "The big four guys really pissed me off most of the time when I played them. But I'm absolutely proud to have my life and career associated with such quality individuals."
Roddick said at the pre-ceremony news conference that when he woke up that morning, the first text he saw was from Federer.
"He makes it extremely hard not to like him as a person," Roddick said.
The inductees took a tour of the museum on Friday, where they got to see their mementos alongside those of some of their heroes. Roddick took special pleasure in seeing the racket Arthur Ashe used when he won Wimbledon in 1975 and the one Rod Laver used at Forest Hills.
"It's almost like your childhood flashes through your head," Clijsters said. "It's very humbling. I'm just trying to take it all in."
Wearing a white button-down shirt embroidered with trucks that his 22-month-old son, Hank, picked out, Roddick noted that as an inductee, he gets to vote on future candidates. He joked that he would take advantage of his new power to pay Federer back for all of the defeats.
"I might vote against him," he said with a smile.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CoCo Vandeweghe wishes Maria Sharapova's US Open wild card went to someone else -- someone else from the United States.
Vandeweghe said she "can't say I agree'' with the United States Tennis Association's decision to grant a wild card to Sharapova, the former US Open champion who knocked off No. 2 Simona Halep on Monday night and advanced to the third round on Wednesday afternoon.
After knocking off No. 2 seed Simona Halep in the first round, Maria Sharapova needed three sets to shake off Timea Babos and reach the third round of the US Open.
Vandeweghe, the No. 20 seed who on Wednesday beat fellow American Alison Riske 2-6, 6-3, 6-4, said she knows from previously receiving a wild card into the tournament that it can be a huge benefit to a young player or one returning from injury.
"Selfishly, I would have wished it was an American,'' Vandeweghe said.
Hungary's Timea Babos, who lost to Sharapova, 6-7 (4), 6-4, 6-1 on Wednesday, agreed with Vandeweghe's central point, saying it's "a little bit unfair for the other players" that the five-time Grand Slam champion is in the field.
Sharapova needed a wild card because her ranking had fallen too low after she served a doping suspension. The USTA said when it granted the wild card that its past practice was to award wild cards to former US Open champions who needed them.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
After losing to unranked Ekaterina Makarova in the second round of the US Open, No. 5 seed Caroline Wozniacki alluded to it being unfair she had to play somewhere other than Arthur Ashe Stadium while unranked Maria Sharapova, who advanced to the third round, was able to play on that court Wednesday.
After knocking off No. 2 seed Simona Halep in the first round, Maria Sharapova needed three sets to shake off Timea Babos and reach the third round of the US Open.
"I think putting out a schedule where the No. 5 in the world is playing on Court 5, fifth match on after 11 (ET) -- I think that's unacceptable, you know," Wozniacki told reporters. "And when you look on Center Court -- I understand completely the business side of things and everything -- but someone who comes back from a drug sentence -- performance enhancing drugs -- and then all of a sudden gets to play every single match on Center Court, I think that's a questionable thing to do.
"I love the US Open. It's a tournament I always look forward to. I think the scheduling was a little bit unfortunate this year. I think there is ways to respect players, to respect rankings and respect people who have done well in the past. There were a few things that could have been a little better."
The US Open is the first major tournament for Sharapova, who was invited to the event as a wildcard, since her 15-month doping suspension ended in April. She originally received a two-year ban for testing positive for meldonium, but it was reduced by the Court of Arbitration for Sport last October after determining that the Russian star acted with "no significant fault."
"I think it doesn't set a good example, and I think someone who has fought their way back from injury and is 5 in the world deserves to play on a bigger court than Court No. 5," Wozniacki said. "Finally they moved us to Court 17, which is a really nice court actually, and we had a great atmosphere out there. But I think they should probably look into what they need to do in the future."
Wozniacki is a former No. 1 who reached the US Open final in 2009 and '14. Her ranking had slipped over the past two seasons -- she dropped to No. 74 last August -- due to injuries.
In March, Wozniacki was critical of Sharapova receiving a wild-card entry into April's Porsche Grand Prix, calling it "disrespectful." That tournament was Sharapova's first since returning from her ban.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEW YORK -- Maria Sharapova fought off a tough challenge Friday from American Sofia Kenin and then addressed a bigger foe -- the perception that the US Open is playing favorites.
Sharapova responded Friday to comments from Caroline Wozniacki, who complained after she was eliminated that Sharapova was scheduled for Arthur Ashe Stadium while she played on an outer court.
"That's not what matters to me," Sharapova said following her 7-5, 6-2 victory over the 18-year-old Kenin. "All that matters to me is I'm in the fourth round. I'm not sure where she is."
Sharapova, given a wild card by the U.S. Tennis Association into her first Grand Slam tournament since a 15-month doping ban, has played all three matches on the main court.
Wozniacki, the No. 5 seed, had said that Sharapova's court placement was a poor example following her second-round defeat Wednesday in a match that was scheduled for an outside court and eventually moved to another late in the day.
"I'm super excited," Venus Williams said when asked about becoming an aunt by ESPN's Pam Shriver before Friday's match. "Words can't describe."
Mischa Zverev of Germany beat John Isner, the highest-ranked American man, at the US Open. Meanwhile, Canadian teen Denis Shapovalov became the youngest man to reach the fourth round since Michael Chang in 1989.
"With regards to scheduling, as you know, I don't make the schedule," Sharapova said. "I'm a pretty big competitor. If you put me out in a parking lot of Queens in New York City, I'm happy to play there."
She is usually reserved for the top players. Sharapova is a five-time Grand Slam champion, but she is unseeded here with a ranking that has tumbled to No. 146 following her suspension.
"When you look on center court, I understand completely the business side of things and everything," Wozniacki told Ekstra Bladet TV of Denmark. "But someone who comes back from a drug sentence and performance-enhancing drugs and then all of a sudden gets to play every single match on center court, I think that's a questionable thing to do."
On Friday, Sharapova struggled at times with the counterpunching, moonballing Kenin, who committed less than half of Sharapova's 33 unforced errors.
"I wasn't surprised with the way she came out and competed," Sharapova said. "She was down I believe a few match points in the previous match. She's a grinder. She'll get many balls back. Despite not having the experience, she's a tough player."
Sharapova eventually prevailed on power, ripping 36 winners to Kenin's six. Sharapova next faces 16th-seeded Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia, who earlier downed Donna Vekic of Croatia 6-2, 6-3.
Venus Williams is also into the fourth round of another major after beating Maria Sakkari of Greece 6-3, 6-4.
It was Williams' 74th win at the US Open, breaking a tie with Steffi Graf for fourth most by a woman in the Open era, according to ESPN Stats & Information.
The No. 9 seed reached the second week for the seventh straight major, the longest active streak in women's tennis. It's the first time since 2010 that she has reached the fourth round in every major.
However, Williams was eliminated earlier Friday from a chance at the No. 1 ranking when Garbine Muguruza reached the round of 16.
Third-seeded Muguruza, this year's Wimbledon champion, defeated 31st-seeded Magdalena Rybarikova 6-1, 6-1.
Two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova advanced 6-0, 6-4 over 18th-seeded Caroline Garcia.
Muguruza and Kvitova will meet in the fourth round.
American Sloane Stephens, 24, is into the US Open's fourth round, something she last did in 2013. Now she is into the second week at a major for the first time since the 2015 French Open.
Information from the Associated Press was used in reporting.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Venus Williams, Chris Fowler and Chris Evert react to the birth of Serena Williams' daughter. (0:47)
Serena Williams had her first baby on Friday, her sister Venus Williams confirmed to ESPN at the US Open.
"I'm super excited," Venus Williams said when asked by ESPN's Pam Shriver about becoming an aunt again, moments before her third-round match. "Words can't describe."
Television station WPBF (West Palm Beach, Florida) reported that the baby was born at St. Mary's Medical Center in West Palm Beach.
"I'm so thrilled for her, what a role model she's going to be for that daughter," ESPN commentator Chris Evert said during Friday's afternoon broadcast of the US Open. "I told Serena this: It's a love you've never felt before, and I know she's probably experiencing that right now."
It's safe to assume Venus Williams is overjoyed by her new niece, but right now her priority is to keep up her winning ways at the US Open.
It's probably not what you'd expect, but Delta Airlines gets credit for top tweet about the birth of Serena Williams' daughter.
Venus, in her postmatch news conference after advancing into the fourth round at Flushing Meadows, requested that reporters stick to tennis.
"I'm definitely available to answer questions about tennis," she said. "That's all right now."
The questions turned to tennis and then family but eventually returned to Serena.
"We always talk," Venus said about her sister. "We always talk, so she's always encouraging me. Yeah, from every step of the way, every match, always."
Venus said she talked to Serena before the match, saying it was "more motivational" than advice about her opponent.
When asked whether Serena's daughter had a two-handed backhand and enough depth on her forehand, Venus cracked.
"Oh, my gosh," Venus said, smiling. "That's hilarious."
Serena revealed in April that she was pregnant, posting a selfie on Snapchat with the caption "20 weeks" and later confirming that she and fiancé Alexis Ohanian were expecting their first child.
She learned she was pregnant just days before the Australian Open began. For her 23rd Grand Slam singles title, Serena beat big sister Venus in the final.
In true Serena fashion, she has been adamant she'll return to the tour after having the baby.
Her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, said in an interview recently that the plan, barring any complications, is for Williams to start training in November.
"The goal is to be ready for the Australian Open and then we'll see," Mouratoglou said of Williams' desire to defend her title. "If she's ready, she'll compete. If not, we'll delay the comeback. I don't think she should compete if she's not really ready."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEW YORK -- Once Rafael Nadal went from passive to aggressive and got his uppercut of a forehand going, it didn't take long for him to power into the US Open final.
Closing in on a third title at Flushing Meadows and his 16th Grand Slam championship overall, Nadal overcame a so-so start with an overwhelming performance the rest of the way Friday night, taking nine games in a row during one stretch to beat 2009 champion Juan Martin del Potro 4-6, 6-0, 6-3, 6-2 in the semifinals.
World No. 1 Nadal will be a significant favorite Sunday against No. 32 Kevin Anderson of South Africa, who beat Pablo Carreno Busta 4-6, 7-5, 6-3, 6-4 to become the lowest-ranked US Open finalist since the ATP's computer rankings began in 1973. The 6-foot-8 (2.03-meter) Anderson, who won an NCAA doubles title at the University of Illinois, is equipped with a big serve, certainly, but he had been a quarterfinalist at a major only once until this week. He has lost his four previous matches against Nadal.
Plus, there's this: Nadal looked as good as ever over the last three sets against del Potro, further confirmation of his return to the height of his powers. Nadal is again healthy and capable of excellence, after wrist and knee injuries dulled his effectiveness in 2015 and 2016 -- the first seasons since 2004 in which he not only failed to win a Grand Slam trophy but didn't even make a final.
"It's been an amazing season, of course, after a couple of years with some troubles, injuries, tough moments," Nadal said. "So this year, since the beginning, has been a very emotional year."
He reached the Australian Open final in January, losing to Roger Federer, and then claimed a record 10th French Open championship in June.
Except for a less-than-dominant opening set Friday, in which Nadal had nine winners and 10 unforced errors, he barely missed his targets. His numbers the rest of the way: 36 winners, 10 unforced errors.
Eventually, del Potro's flat, fearsome forehand became less dangerous, as if he suddenly remembered just how weary he was. Dealing with an illness, del Potro came back from a two-set deficit to win his fourth-round match in five sets, and then got past 19-time major champion Federer in the quarterfinals in four sets. Maybe it was all too much for del Potro, whose one Grand Slam title came via wins over Nadal in the semifinals and Federer in the final in New York in 2009.
That was the last time Nadal lost in a major semifinal; he has now won 15 in a row. This time, the 24th-seeded del Potro actually edged ahead with the match's first break, going up 3-2 in the first set when his backhand return caught the net tape and took a fortuitous roll over to Nadal's side for a winner.
That was greeted with a chorus for the popular Argentine: "Ole, ole, ole, ole! Del-po! Del-po!" He would serve out the set, punctuating it with a forehand.
Maybe that woke up Nadal, who wouldn't again relinquish a game until he owned the second set and a 3-0 lead in the third. The next time del Potro served, Nadal finally earned his first break point with some fantastic defense, throwing himself to his left to somehow get back one massive forehand from del Potro, who -- perhaps stunned that ball came back -- sent his next forehand long.
By now, Nadal was pulling his own intimidating, topspin-lathered forehand up the line and attacking whenever del Potro left a ball short.
It was quickly clear that the only doubt remaining was what the final score would be.
"Just the fight to be in the final, and have a chance to fight for another title here, is so important for me," Nadal said.
Hours earlier, Anderson was so excited that he celebrated his semifinal victory as if it made him the champion, stepping on a chair and then a flower box to help him climb into his guest box in the stands.
"I don't know if it's appropriate," Anderson said. "It certainly felt the right thing to do."
Hip, leg and elbow injuries caused him to miss time this season. Ankle surgery -- and left knee, right shoulder and groin injuries -- were problems last year.
He is appearing in his 34th major tournament and took advantage of a draw depleted by withdrawals of several top players, including past champions Novak Djokovic, Andy Murray and Stan Wawrinka.
"It's nice that some of them gave us a bit of a shot to make a run in this tournament," Anderson said.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NEW YORK -- Rafael Nadal entered the 2017 Grand Slam season on a 2½-year drought without so much as one appearance in a major final, let alone a title. He ends it having reasserted himself, capped by a U.S. Open final that shaped up as quite a mismatch -- and turned out to be exactly that.
His game at a higher level than it needed to be by the end of an unusually easy path through the field, Nadal overwhelmed Kevin Anderson 6-3, 6-3, 6-4 on Sunday to win his third championship at Flushing Meadows.
"Of course, after a couple of years without competing at this very high, high level,'' Nadal said, "very happy to be back.''
The No. 1-ranked Nadal collected his 16th Grand Slam trophy overall and at his news conference, he wore a white T-shirt listing the date and site of each one. Among men, only Roger Federer has more, with 19. Each of those two longtime rivals won two of the four majors this season, marking their return to the heights of their sport.
Let's get this straight: Rafael Nadal, the oft-injured, shaken superstar from the past couple of years, won two majors and is the No. 1 player in the world in 2017? This season couldn't be any sweeter.
Well-done, Rafael Nadal. You have 16 Slams, and counting. The only problem is that you are no further along in catching Roger Federer for the all-time lead than you were at the end of last season.
Kevin Anderson suffered a lopsided loss in the US Open final, but given everything he has been through, this is only a minor setback by comparison.
Nadal has dealt with knee and wrist problems, both likely a result of his physical brand of play, over his career, but 2015 and 2016 were his first seasons without reaching at least one Grand Slam final since 2004, when he was still a teenager.
Seems safe to say that, at age 31, he is once again the Nadal of old.
"I mean, I've always said he's one of the, obviously, greatest players of our sport, obviously feeling very confident,'' Anderson said. "He seems to have turned around a lot of those injuries he's experienced the last couple of years. I guess time will tell on that.''
At No. 32, Anderson was the lowest-ranked U.S. Open men's finalist since the ATP computer rankings began in 1973. The 31-year-old South African never had been past the quarterfinals at any major tournament in 33 previous appearances, so when he won his semifinal on Friday, he climbed into the stands to celebrate.
There would be no such joy for him on this day.
Nadal added to his U.S. Open triumphs in 2010 and 2013 and improved to 16-7 in Grand Slam finals. For the first time since 2013, he appeared in three in a single season, losing to Federer at the Australian Open in January, then beating Stan Wawrinka for his record 10th French Open trophy in June.
Nadal's career haul also includes two trophies from Wimbledon and one from the Australian Open. All of his big victories have come while being coached by his uncle, Toni, who is now stepping aside. The U.S. Open was the last Grand Slam event of their partnership.
It was not as daunting as usual.
Not since Pete Sampras at Wimbledon in 2000 had a man won a Slam tournament without facing any opponents ranked in the top 20. In New York, the bracket was weakened by the injury withdrawals of three of the top five men: past champions Andy Murray, Novak Djokovic and Wawrinka.
Plus, Nadal did not need to deal with Federer: The potential for a semifinal, which would have been their first U.S. Open meeting, was dashed when Juan Martin del Potro eliminated Federer in the quarterfinals. Nadal then beat del Potro , the 2009 champion but now ranked 28th, in the semis.
Much like Nadal's 6-2, 6-3, 6-1 win against Wawrinka at Roland Garros, the only beauty of this match was not in its competitiveness -- not by a long shot -- but in an appreciation for one participant's absolute superiority.
Forehands whipped up the line. Two-handed backhands ripped cross-court with ferocity. The spinning, back-to-the-net returns of serves that darted in at him at more than 130 mph (210 kph) and helped him break Anderson four times.
"I learned a lot of lessons,'' Anderson conceded. "It was a difficult match, up against somebody who has been on that stage over 20 times before.''
Nadal even came up with some terrific volleys, winning the point on all 16 of his trips to the net. Anderson, meanwhile, finished 16 for 34 in that category. Another difference-maker: Nadal never faced a break point, although that was more a reflection of his talent once the ball was in play than any particularly dominant serving.
With Nadal standing way back to receive serves, nearly backing into the line judges, he neutralized Anderson's most effective skill. Anderson came in having won 103 of 108 service games across six matches, but Nadal accumulated break points at will from the get-go -- two in a six-deuce game at 1-all, another two in a five-deuce game at 2-all.
Anderson began trying to end points quickly with a volley. Two problems with that: Anderson is not usually a serve-and-volleyer and so is no expert at that tactic; Nadal is superb at summoning passing shots at extreme speeds and angles, especially when facing the sort of target provided by the 6-foot-8 (2.03-meter) Anderson, the tallest Grand Slam finalist in history.
At 3-all, 30-all, Anderson double-faulted to offer up Nadal's fifth break point of the match, then badly pushed a forehand wide.
That only made the score 4-3 , but the statistics were telling: Anderson had 21 unforced errors, Nadal just four. A pattern had been established.
"That,'' Nadal said, "changed the rest of the match.''
When he broke to lead 4-2 in the second set , that was pretty much that.
"I always accepted all the challenges that my career present to me. The good news and the negative news, I accepted in the same way, in a very natural way. I am a person that I don't have much ups and downs,'' Nadal said. "When I am in a negative moment, I don't go very down. When I am in a positive moment, probably like now, I don't believe that I am that good.''
Rest assured, Rafa. You're good.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
After returning to the ATP Tour in style with a 6-3, 6-4 win over Viktor Troicki at the Japan Open on Tuesday, Milos Raonic called for a review of how the sport is run.
It was Raonic's first match following a seven-week absence with a left-wrist surgery. The big-serving Canadian has withdrawn from five events this year, and conceded walkovers at two others.
"It's been very frustrating," said Raonic, who started this year at No. 3 but has slipped to No. 12 in the rankings. "I think I've had more than a dozen different injuries and reasons that have kept me away from tournaments. That hasn't been fun because I haven't been able to focus on tennis, I've been focusing on `Can I play today or can't I?' rather than, `What do I need to do with my tennis game?"
"I believe out of those of us that finished top five last year, I'm the only guy still trying to play this year, and none of the top five played the U.S. Open," Raonic said. "Maybe it's a testament to some kind of reform being needed for the sake of players' careers, and being able to provide a certain calibre of tennis for spectators.
"Scheduling, the length of the year and how spread out -- geographically and throughout the year -- the tournaments are, especially the top tournaments for the top players, is something that deserves a second look. It's hard to peak four times of the year for Grand Slams, let alone for other tournaments."
The length of the season has long been an issue for players, something the men's and women's tours have taken some steps to address, and Raonic believes that a more compact season would help the competition across the board.
"Give the players that really stand out mandatory events, give them a chance to play everything within a seven-month period so they can really focus on themselves health-wise, but also on improving, because you need that time," Raonic said. "We're the only sport, outside of golf maybe, that plays as spread out as we do without any time for rest."
Richard Gasquet, pictured, dumped London hopeful Sam Querry out of the Japan Open. Matt Roberts/Getty Images

Richard Gasquet also advanced to the second round, with a 6-4, 7-6(2) defeat of sixth-seeded Sam Querrey.
The Frenchman missed the opening five ATP 1000 Masters events this year, following appendicitis surgery and subsequent back problems. Those back problems also forced him out of two other events.
"I had a lot of injuries this year and now I'm feeling fit, that's why I can compete well," Gasquet said. "I had appendicitis then everything went wrong with my body after that, so it was a tough year for me. The back problems came after that surgery, my recovery was very bad and I started practicing a little bit too quickly, after five weeks -- I wasn't ready. I didn't think it would be so tough to recover -- of course I'm not 20 anymore, I'm 31."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal have created one of the greatest rivalries in sports history. While their epic struggle has been driven by the contrast in their styles of play, they often seem intertwined -- so much so that they provided the tennis lexicon with a new word, "Fedal."
These men are more than rivals. They're collegial champions and friends, ambassadors and advertisements for the game. The over-30 idols staged a joint comeback this year, battling tooth, nail and press clips to sweep all four Grand Slams and end the year atop the ATP rankings (Nadal at No. 1, Federer right behind).
Rafael Nadal and Garbine Muguruza have won the International Tennis Federation's Player of the Year awards.
After a 2017 men's tennis season full of surprises, we can't wait to see what 2018 has in store. So here are five predictions for the coming year, when Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer had better watch their backs.
Theirs was a tennis feel-great story, but it also sent a message. Andre Agassi, now coaching Novak Djokovic, told ESPN.com: "They are redefining what people are capable of and what career longevity actually means."
But the Year of Fedal did leave one intriguing question hanging for fans. Put simply, "Who had the better year?" If the ATP had an MVP for 2017, would the honor go to muscular Nadal or meteoric Federer? Let's go through the details and pick one:
Overall record: Advantage, Federer
The magic number when it comes to winning percentage in tennis is .900, or a 90 percent success rate. Federer once again cleared the highest bar with a WP of .912, based on a match record of 52-5.
Nadal exposed himself to losses far more often, but unlike Federer, he played a healthy schedule on all surfaces. He finished 67-11 for a winning percentage of .859. Nadal's age (31, compared to Federer's 36) probably had something to do with his heftier workload.
The sheer volume of matches Nadal contested also had an enormous upside. It earned him the year-end No. 1 ranking. That counts for a lot, but one other detail swings the pendulum to Federer's side for good: He made eight finals and won seven. Nadal won six finals and lost four -- three of them to Federer.
Quality titles: Advantage, Federer
Two of Nadal's six titles were majors (French Open and US Open), and he added ATP Masters 1000 wins at Monte Carlo and Madrid. Federer saw Nadal, and raised him one Masters title. Fed won the Australian Open, Wimbledon and three Masters. He completed the demanding "Sunshine Double" when he won at Indian Wells and Miami, beating Nadal at both places.
"This is where it all started for us in 2004 when you were a little boy who grew into a big man and strong man," Federer said after he hammered Nadal 6-3, 6-4 in the Miami final. "We have had some epic matches over the years, which I didn't always enjoy, but mostly [did]."
Grand Slam performance:  Advantage, Nadal
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, one of Fedal's perpetually disappointed rivals, put it best when he remarked: "We all have in mind that Roger now has won 19 majors and Rafa won 10 times Roland Garros almost in a row, which is just unbelievable. What can we say about it except, magnifique?"
Federer recorded 18 straight Grand Slam match wins before he took his first -- and only loss -- to Juan Martin del Potro in the quarterfinals of the US Open. But Federer skipped the clay season and Roland Garros. He was forced to five sets five times -- four of them in Australia. Nadal was 23-2, with four five-set matches, but two were tough to digest -- the Australian Open loss to Federer and that five-set battle Nadal lost to Gilles Muller in the fourth round of Wimbledon.
The average ranking of Nadal's 25 Grand Slam opponents was No. 42, while for Federer it was 57. Federer had the easiest run in the Australian, where his opponents' rankings averaged out to No. 87, while the figure for Nadal was No. 19.
Nadal gets the endorsement here because he played all the majors and won more matches. Federer's decision to skip clay in order to prepare for Wimbledon was understandable, but in tennis, showing up counts.
Consistency: Advantage, Nadal
Being the King of Clay is well and good, but it's pretty easy to go from prince to pauper when only 30 percent of tour events are staged on dirt. Nadal piles up wins regardless of surface -- something Federer did not do in 2017 because of his decision to bypass the clay segment.
Only one tournament (Shanghai Masters) had a faster Court Pace Index this year than the Australian Open (CPI, 42). Federer loved the fast courts; Nadal, not so much.
Federer was unable to exploit the 35.7 CPI at the US Open to survive past the quarterfinals, while Nadal won the event despite being outside his comfort zone. The courts in Flushing Meadow were slower than those in Melbourne but still faster than all but two of the outdoor Masters 1000 events.
As Simona Halep said of Nadal at the WTA Finals: "I always love the way he's on court. Every match that he wins is like the first match of his life and the last one. So this is impressive." It's also remarkably consistent.
Head-to-head against the elite: Advantage, Federer
Federer won all four meetings with Nadal in 2017, which cut Nadal's lead in the career rivalry to 23-15. Federer also outdueled Nadal in two critical finals, the Australian Open and Miami Masters. What's worse for Nadal is that Federer basically crushed him in three of four meetings in 2017. It helped Federer compile a better record against top-10 opposition in 2017. He was 14-2 to Nadal's 12-6.
"The Australian Open was a great match. The others, though, were one-way traffic," Paul Annacone, a Tennis Channel commentator who coached Federer through some of his best years, told ESPN.com. And all that traffic flowed toward Federer.
Impact on the game: Advantage, Federer
It may not be performance-based, but an MVP ideally has an influence on how the game evolves as well as how it is played. There's no doubt that the Laver Cup, pitting a team from Europe against one representing the rest of the world, was a great idea as well as a resounding success. Nadal played in it, but Federer invented it. Whether the event lasts and becomes a staple of the calendar is yet to be seen, but it's off to a terrific start.
While both men are inspirational, Federer brought one additional quality to the table of strivers. He was a 17-time Grand Slam champion, 35 years old, when he decided to change and grow his game by introducing the aggressive elements that shaped his success of 2017.
"I can learn from Roger that at any age you can still learn something in tennis, even if he was perfect before," Halep said. "He showed us that if you believe, and if you work hard, you can get better. So there is no limit, in my opinion, about Roger."
The 2017 MVP belongs to ... 
By a nose, Federer is our choice as MVP for this extraordinary year in tennis.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PERTH -- The USA's chances of claiming a seventh Hopman Cup title took a hit on Tuesday when world No.8 Jack Sock was forced to retire during his clash with Japan's Yuichi Sugita.
Sock injured his hip when he took a fall during the first set of his men's singles clash.
After taking a 4-2 lead, the Japanese world No. 40 claimed the set in a tiebreaker.
The American took treatment during the break but then called it a day when trailing 7-6 (7-1) 1-1.
Earlier, CoCo Vandeweghe was officially handed a 6-0 6-0 victory in the women's singles after Japan's Naomi Osaka pulled out of the day's play due to illness.
At one rubber apiece, the tie is drawn, with neither country capable of fielding their proper team for the deciding fast4 mixed doubles clash.
Vandeweghe will team up with her coach Pat Cash in an exhibition doubles clash, against Sugati and West Australian teenager Maddison Inglis.
Australian tennis' forgotten man Thanasi Kokkinakis says he's ready to take on the heavyweights after an injury-free preseason.
Spaniard Garbine Muguruza has been forced to withdraw from the Brisbane International after succumbing to chronic leg cramps.
Vandeweghe received a solid workout in her singles game despite the early withdrawal of her opponent.
The world No. 10 was put through her paces by 19-year-old Inglis, who has been used as a hitting partner during the tournament this summer and last.
Inglis, ranked 771 in the world, broke the serve of her more experienced opponent once in each set and with a bit of luck could have won the opening set.
But Vandeweghe delivered on important points to claim a 7-5 6-2 victory.
Vandeweghe admitted she has some work to do on the mental side of her game as the Australian Open gets nearer.
"I have been practising with Maddi all week, so she is comfortable with me and my game; I would think," she said.
"She is quite a different opponent to Naomi. But I'm just trying to do the best I can against any opponent who comes my way.
"It's more, for me, more a mental side, focusing on actual play. I got a bit sloppy out there, especially today.
"I think that's just the start of the season."
Despite her inexperience, Inglis showed plenty of promise at the start of 2016 when she won the Australian Open women's wildcard playoff against Arina Rodionova.
She returns to the game after having most of 2017 off.
The result leaves the Swiss team of Roger Federer and Belinda Bencic in a strong position to qualify on top of Group B and play for a third Hopman Cup.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Serena Williams' decision on whether or not to defend her Australian Open title four months after giving birth to her first child was never about merely being able to play at Melbourne Park.
The seven-time Australian Open champion confirmed Thursday she wouldn't attempt to defend the title she won there last year, saying she wasn't completely sure she could win it.
Williams played in an exhibition tournament last weekend in Abu Dhabi and indicated after her loss to French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko that she might not travel to Melbourne.
The five-time finalist is set to fly back to the United Kingdom having said he would "assess all the options" on the injury after floating the possibility of surgery earlier this week.
Andy Murray's withdrawal from the Australian Open only opens up more opportunity for the former world No. 1 to prove his doubters wrong again.
"After competing in Abu Dhabi I realized that although I am super close, I'm not where I personally want to be," Williams said in a statement. "My coach and team always said, 'Only go to tournaments when you are prepared to go all the way.' I can compete -- but I don't want to just compete, I want to do far better than that and to do so, I will need a little more time.
"With that being said, and even though I am disappointed about it, I've decided not to compete in the Australian Open this year."
Williams was pregnant when she won at Melbourne Park last year, her Open-era record 23rd Grand Slam singles title. She gave birth to her daughter, Alexis Olympia, in September.
The 36-year-old Williams needs only one more major title to equal the all-time record held by Margaret Court, who won 13 of her 24 Grand Slam titles before the Open era began in 1968.
Her withdrawal comes less than 24 hours after fellow former world No. 1 Andy Murray withdrew from the men's event because of a chronic hip injury.
Other star players, including top-ranked Rafael Nadal, six-time champion Novak Djokovic and 2014 winner Stan Wawrinka, also are dealing with injuries.
Williams last year beat older sister Venus in the final. In terms of total years, it was the oldest Grand Slam women's final in the Open era with the Williams sisters combining for 71 years, 11 months.
Venus has returned and is playing in Sydney next week to prepare for the Australian Open, which begins Jan. 15.
Serena will sit one out but is promising to return in the future.
"The memory of last year's Open is one that I will carry with me, and Olympia and I look forward to coming back again," she said. "I appreciate the support and understanding of my fans and everyone at the Australian Open."
Australian Open tournament director Craig Tiley said Williams waited as long as she could before letting officials know she wouldn't be able to compete.
"I've been in constant contact with Serena and her team and know this is why she has pushed it and pushed it until the 11th hour to make her final decision," Tiley said.
Tiley also expressed his admiration for Serena's efforts to return to the game she loves.
"The true champion Serena is has been demonstrated in the herculean efforts she has made over the past few months in her desire to play the Australian Open.
"Serena transcends the sport in the way she approaches all aspects of her life and consistently gives her all in everything she does. It was never going to be good enough for her to just compete, she wants to give herself the best chance to win."
With Serena Williams out, the women's singles title at Melbourne appears to be wide open. No. 1-ranked Simona Halep and No. 3 Caroline Wozniacki are bidding to win their first Grand Slam singles titles.
Also in the mix will be No. 2-ranked Garbine Muguruza, last year's Wimbledon winner, US Open champion Sloane Stephens and Venus Williams, who will be aiming to win her eighth major singles title at the age of 37.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Rafael Nadal confirmed himself a certain Australian Open starter after making a rusty return to the court at the Kooyong Classic.
The world No.1 played just his second match in almost three months, losing to veteran Frenchman Richard Gasquet 6-4 7-5 in their exhibition outing in Melbourne on Tuesday, but he looked to be moving freely on his troublesome knee.
"It was a good test for me and good practice," Nadal said.
"I'm good and I am here so that's good news, and my idea is just to keep practising the next couple of days to be ready for the beginning of the Australian Open."
Nadal hadn't played since withdrawing from the ATP Tour Finals in mid-November after an opening three-set loss to David Goffin.
Once an afterthought for the top players, the Australian Open has become paramount in setting the tone for the rest of the season.
Stan Wawrinka has missed the past six months due to left knee surgery, but he says he'll be ready for the Australian Open.
The Australian Open hasn't even begun, yet the game could see some of the top stars shelved for the foreseeable future.
He was far from his best against world No. 31 Gasquet, but it was a big step forward as he targets a second Australian Open title.
Nadal trailed Gasquet 3-0 in the second set after going down a double break but clawed his way back to lead 5-4 only to lose his serve again.
His forehand was particularly erratic in the swirling wind at Kooyong. Tournament officials hastily organised the practice match for Nadal after he withdrew from last week's Brisbane International saying he was underdone.
"It was a long year last year so I started my preparation a little bit later than usual," Nadal said.
"It's good to start having the feelings of playing a match even if it's not official."
Nadal, who lost the Open final in five sets to Roger Federer last year, will round out his preparation in the Tie Break Tens in Melbourne on Wednesday night, alongside Novak Djokovic, Stan Wawrinka and Nick Kyrgios.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
AUCKLAND, New Zealand -- Top-seeded and defending champion Jack Sock bowed out of the ATP Tour's ASB Classic in its second round Wednesday, beaten 6-3, 6-3 by unseeded German Peter Gojowczyk on a bad day for American players.
Sock's compatriots, third-seeded Sam Querrey, fourth-seeded John Isner and unseeded Steve Johnson, were also beaten in second-round matches.
Querrey lost 6-4, 6-7 (10), 7-6 (5) to Czech Jiri Vesely, two-time champion Isner lost 7-6 (3), 5-7, 6-2 to Hyeon Chung of South Korea, and Johnson was beaten 2-6, 6-2, 6-1 by fifth-seeded former champion Roberto Bautista Agut of Spain.
Apart from Sock's departure, one of the main surprises Wednesday was the ease in which second-seeded Juan Martin del Potro dismissed Canadian teenage star Denis Shapovalov. Argentina's del Potro, who beat Querrey to win the 2009 ASB Classic, needed only an hour to beat Shapovalov 6-2, 6-4.
Shapovalov beat del Potro when the pair first met in Montreal last year, but the 18-year-old made too many errors Wednesday to repeat that performance.
Isner's powerful serve wasn't enough to save him in his match with Chung, the winner of last year's ATP Next Generation finals.
The 6-foot-10 American, who served 1,123 aces in 2017, hit 30 more Wednesday, but Chung replied with 18 aces and added a superb returning game while Isner made 58 unforced errors.
Chung will now meet four-time champion David Ferrer of Spain, who beat Joao Sousa of Portugal 6-2, 6-2.
Johnson, a semifinalist in Auckland last year, looked on target for an easy win when he swept through the first set against Bautista Agut in 35 minutes.
But Bautista Agut stepped up in the second and third sets, putting more first serves in play and returning strongly to create chances at the net.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SYDNEY -- Former world No.1 Angelique Kerber continued her strong start to the season by advancing to the Sydney International semifinals with a 6-3, 6-1 win over Dominika Cibulkova on Thursday.
Kerber, who began last year at the top of the rankings before finishing at No. 22, won her seventh straight match of 2018, including four singles at the Hopman Cup last week.
"This start is not bad, for sure," Kerber said.
Kerber will play Camila Giorgi in the semifinals. Giorgi beat defending champion Agnieszka Radwanska 6-1, 6-2.
Ashleigh Barty also advanced, 6-3, 6-2 over Barbora Strycova.
She will play fellow Australian Daria Gavrilova, who had a walkover win over Wimbledon champion Garbine Muguruza when the Spanish player withdrew from her quarterfinal with a right thigh injury.
In men's quarterfinals, fourth-seeded Fabio Fognini beat No. 5 Adrian Mannarino 6-7 (4), 7-6 (4), 6-2, Daniil Medvedev defeated Paolo Lorenzi 6-3, 6-3, and Benoit Paire beat second-seeded Gilles Muller 6-4, 6-4.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MELBOURNE, Australia -- Billie Jean King thinks one of the main venues at the Australian Open should be renamed because of Margaret Court's comments about the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community.
King, a trailblazer for equality and diversity in tennis, said she had initially been a proponent of having Margaret Court Arena named in 2003 in recognition of the 24-time Grand Slam singles winner's contribution to the sport.
"I was fine until lately when she said so many derogatory things about my community -- I'm a gay woman -- about the LBGTIQ community," King said at news conference Friday. "That really went deep in my heart and soul.
"I personally don't think she should have (her name on the stadium) anymore."
King is attending the Australian Open for the first time in eight years, marking the 50th anniversary of her win over Court for the Australian title.
King said if she was still competing, she wouldn't play on Margaret Court Arena. King said she wouldn't promote a boycott of the stadium, but encouraged players to "seek their own heart and mind" before making a decision.
Organizers have recognized the American tennis great as the Australian Open Woman of the Year and launched its "Open4All" initiative to promote equality, diversity and inclusion to coincide with King's visit.
King, one of the original professionals in women's tennis and winner of 12 major singles titles in the Open era, said she had regularly met with Court at tournaments in the years since they retired after "we grew up together playing each other."
The 75-year-old Court, who holds the record for most Grand Slam singles titles across the amateur and Open eras, is a Christian pastor who lives in Perth, Western Australia.
Court's negative comments about gay people before Australia voted in favor of legalizing same-sex marriage were heavily criticized last year. Court also has called transgender children the work of "the devil."
Martina Navratilova, an 18-time Grand Slam singles winner, wrote an open letter last year criticizing Court and recommended that tennis officials rename the arena after another Australian great, Evonne Goolagong Cawley.
King said she lobbied on Court's behalf after Melbourne Park's center court was named for Rod Laver in 2000. Her show court was recently upgraded to add a roof and bigger capacity.
Court is a regular at the event, but is not attending this year's Australian Open, which starts Monday.
Tournament director Craig Tiley said Court had a standing invitation to the season-opening major, and would be welcome in the future as she had been in the past.
He said there had been "conversation" among stakeholders of Melbourne Park regarding the issue, but there was no process in place to change the name of the stadium. He said Tennis Australia -- a tenant at the venue -- would take the lead of the government on the issue.
In 2006, the U.S. Tennis Association named the site of the U.S. Open, located in a public park in New York, the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center.
King said she wished Court was in Melbourne so they could continue the conversation.
"You can have discussion around it. I would be very welcome to Margaret," the 74-year-old King said. "It's really important if you're going to have your name on anything that you're hospitable, you're inclusive, you open your arms to everyone that comes. It's a public facility."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
British No. 1 Johanna Konta will compete at the Margaret Court Arena despite disagreeing with Court's controversial statements on LGBT issues and same-sex marriage.
Tennis legends Martina Navratilova and Billie Jean King both condemned Court's views -- the latter calling for the Margaret Court Arena, which is one of the main venues at the Australian Open, to be renamed.
When asked about the furore, Konta told a press conference: "I don't agree with what Margaret Court said. However, she's entitled to her own opinion.
"But in terms of playing, if I'm scheduled to play on Margaret Court, I will go out there and compete. It's a tournament decision where they put me.
"I think it's unfortunate that this whole thing has even occurred, because it does overshadow why her name is on the court. It's not because of her beliefs, it's because of her achievements in the sport. They're actually quite separate.
"It's not nice to be answering these sorts of questions. It's not really what this tournament is about. It's not what these sorts of sporting events are about.
"They're about equality, they're about showcasing men and women, wheelchair tennis; celebrating tennis in that way."
Australia's Court, 75, won 24 major singles titles before becoming a Christian pastor in Perth.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Ashleigh Barty is out of the Australian Open after falling victim to the awesome firepower of Japan's Naomi Osaka.
Unseeded Osaka crunched 12 aces and 24 clean winners past Barty on Saturday to send Australia's last women's singles hope packing with a crushing 6-4 6-2 third-round defeat.
Osaka's reward is a shot at world No.1 Simona Halep for a place in a grand slam quarterfinal for the first time.
Nick Kyrgios has given us nothing to talk about this past week outside his sterling play. Can he keep it up against No. 3 Grigor Dimitrov?
Simona Halep was tired. Lauren Davis was exhausted. The fans watching could hardly catch their breath. It was a marathon moment we won't soon forget.
"I feel really happy but I'm also kind of sorry because I know you guys wanted her to win," the 20-year-old told the Australian crowd on Margaret Court Arena.
"So thank you very much because I've never played in an atmosphere like this before. I've always wanted to play against an Australian player because on TV it always seems really cool."
The marquee match had been scheduled for Rod Laver Arena, to start not before 3.30pm.
But with Halep needing almost three-and-a-quarter-hours to subdue American Lauren Davis 4-6 6-4 15-13, and then the men's showdown between Alexander Zverev and Hyeong Chung also going the distance over five sets, Open officials shifted Barty and Osaka.
That was no problem for Osaka.
"I just think there would have been a lot more people cheering for her," she said. "So I think it was good for me."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MELBOURNE, Australia -- As he watched the final desperation return from Dominic Thiem sail long, Tennys Sandgren dropped his racket onto the court as the Hisense Arena crowd roared. Sandgren walked to the net to embrace his latest fallen opponent, then walked several steps backward and extended both of his arms outward with a look on his face of total disbelief.
Sandgren claimed it was a pinch-me moment, and can you blame him?
This is, after all, a guy just off the Challenger Tour whose name is pronounced just like the sport he plays, even though that was never the intent from his parents. This is Tennys from Tennessee -- a 26-year-old who made his Australian Open main-draw debut this year and who on Monday took down the No. 5 player in the world to reach the Australian Open quarterfinals.
Has Sandgren produced surprising results? Yes.
His best week ever on the main tour qualifies as one of the great feel-good stories in tennis in some time. It puts him on the verge of being the sports equivalent to a John Daly, a journeyman golfer who won a major -- the 1991 PGA Championship -- in his first year on the PGA tour.
Just think about how much Sandgren's life has changed in such a short period of time. Just over a week ago, he took a picture of all the gear supplied to him by a sports apparel company, and posted it on his Twitter page with the following caption: "Hopefully I'll have enough matches to go through all the gear in Melbourne."
That was before his first match, which he played out of the media spotlight on Court 12.
During Monday's 6-2, 4-6, 7-6 (7-4), 6-7 (7-9), 6-3 win over Thiem, Sandgren had television cameras in his face following his every move between points in the much more prominent setting of Hisense Arena. And after the win and the postmatch interview, he walked over to an adoring crowd to sign balls and programs of autograph seekers who, before Monday night, probably didn't even know his name.
"When you play Futures and Challengers for three, four years, you're playing in obscurity, there's not a lot of attention," Sandgren said over the weekend. "You play the game for other reasons. You don't play the game for money or attention."
That may be true. But as you win, the money tends to increase.
There isn't much fun in losing, and there's even less fun when injured. Just ask Novak Djokovic, who fell in straight sets Monday at the Australian Open.
A Tennys Sandgren-Hyeon Chung quarterfinal? Really? It was an extraordinary outcome from an extraordinary night of tennis at Melbourne Park.
Get the 2018 Australian Open tennis tournament's dates, TV schedule, news coverage, live scores and results on ESPN.
And so does the scrutiny.
During his postmatch news conference, Sandgren was asked about some of his social media posts and the people that he follows on Twitter. When his coach, sitting in the back of the room, attempted to change the subject, Sandgren insisted on addressing the questioner.
"What information you see doesn't dictate what you think or believe, I think it's crazy to think that," Sandgren said. "To say he's following X person, so he believes all the things that this person believes, I think that's ridiculous.
"I don't think any kind of engagement in that way dictates that you are right in there with that particular person. I don't think it works that way."
Sandgren, a guy who's never faced the media spotlight that's been on him this past week, handled the questioning that had nothing to do with tennis with the poise of someone who's been under the spotlight for years.
And it's the same way he has handled his opponents. You almost expected Sandgren to crumble against Thiem when the match entered the fifth set, considering the Futures and Challenger events he's been playing extend only to best-of-three sets.
But Sandgren broke Thiem in the set's sixth game, and followed that up by winning every point in the seventh.
Up 5-3 and serving for the match, Sandgren's first serve came off the court so wide that Thiem was pushed into the digital advertising stands that line the side of the courts.
Somehow, Thiem was able to make the return, but could not recover quickly enough to handle Sandgren's forehand winner.
Thiem didn't have a white flag to wave in surrender. But the way he looked skyward in disbelief at the end of the point, you knew he was done.
"He played extremely well," Thiem said. "He made me work a lot. An unbelievable result. He can go to the semis."
Yes, he can, especially after Novak Djokovic dropped his match Monday to Hyeon Chung, leaving an unseeded opponent between Sandgren and the final four.
When the Australian Open began a week ago, Sandgren had a player's box that included his coach and a few friends.
For the biggest match of his life against Thiem, that box had increased to a boisterous group that ran nearly 30 deep.
Too bad more people weren't there to witness the win. There was sparse attendance in Hisense Arena, with some sections completely empty.
Sandgren didn't mind. He's been used to playing in small events for small paychecks and little in terms of praise.
Now he steps onto the big court at Rod Laver Arena playing for bigger stakes than he ever could have dreamed of. He's guaranteed $352,000 for reaching the quarterfinals, which is a huge check considering coming into Melbourne, he'd earned $488,735 for his entire career.
His bank account has grown, and so has his confidence in playing against some of the best players in the world.
That's evident in the way his thinking has changed over the past week. Here's what he said about a deep tournament run after beating Wawrinka in the second round:
"I'm not sure. I'm not sure. The physicality, the fitness level, the shot-making, I don't know if I have that in me. I'm going to keep working and maybe I can get somewhere close to that. At least I'll do the best I can to try to. We'll see.
"I know that I'm good enough to do good things in the game. This is confirmation for me."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The sweat, exhaustion and pride of everything Kyle Edmund achieved at the Australian Open will now be compartmentalised into experience. The British No. 2 has got the taste for the final throes of Grand Slams after reaching the semifinals in Melbourne, he now wants more.
News has broken that a hip injury will prevent Edmund from playing any part in the Davis Cup singles against Spain and if the Great Britain side is to emulate the success of 2015, they will more than likely need him to return sooner rather than later.
It has been a whirlwind few weeks for Edmund, but to those closest it comes as no surprise that he has taken another step closer to realising dreams he scribbled down on a piece of paper as a 10-year-old.
Neither reaching the final four in Australia nor winning the Davis Cup were on the "goal sheet" the young Edmund handed his then coach Richard Plews. Detailing his dreams for tennis, Plews had seen hundreds of these, but Edmund's stood out.
Marin Cilic booked his place in Sunday's Australian Open final after ending Kyle Edmund's surprising tournament run in convincing fashion, winning 6-2, 7-6 (4), 6-2.
"He was already talking about wanting to be a professional player," Plews told ESPN. "At that age, he was already talking about his forehand, backhand down the line being signature strengths. And also his drop shot.
"He talked about wanting to be top 10 in the country, and then top 10 in the world. You often get kids saying they want to be pros, or win Wimbledon, but Kyle had this laser beam focus and was so focused on what he wants to do."
Edmund is beginning to realise his potential. That was the common theme from talking to his first individual coach Plews, old roommate Luke Bambridge, and Mark Hilton, who is one half of Edmund's coaching double act alongside Fredrik Rosengren. The talent was always there, but small alterations have seen him turn from being the nearly-man into a player who exploded into Britain's tennis consciousness in Melbourne.
"It's been an amazing journey," Plews said. "He's constantly improved; he's improved physically, mentally. His movement has improved, his serve has moved forward and he's got that nuclear forehand. It's arguably the most destructive weapon in men's tennis. He'll only continue to improve. It's classic Kyle."
Plews talked to ESPN courtside in Tarbes, in the south of France at the tournament "Les Petits As," overseeing two young hopefuls wanting to emulate Edmund. He first came across Edmund in 2003 when the youngster attended Plews' summer school in Hull. The camp combined producing serious tennis players -- Katie O'Brien included -- but there was recreational tennis, too. An 8-year-old Edmund arrived for the recreational side in the multisport camp and won the gold medal.
"He showed great ability, even though he wasn't particularly tutored at that time," Plews said. When the club relocated to the David Lloyd Gym in Hull in January 2004, Edmund followed and Plews became his individual coach. He remembers him coming to the club before and after school, and then taking half days off school to practise more. As his commitment grew, so did his forehand. "He had a game that was unusual for kids of that age," Plews said. "He had a game that would translate into the men's game. At that young age he had a game identity."
He did not have an eye-catching junior career -- he wasn't necessarily knocking the world over, as Plews put it -- and in 2007 John Black inherited him. It was around this time that Bambridge got to know him.
Bambridge, who roomed with Edmund for two years at the National Tennis Centre, remembers the young Briton as being reserved and unwaveringly focused on his love for tennis. But there was also a scary power to his game.
"He used to sit on his iPad watching tennis or F1 or Liverpool," Bambridge said. "Lewis Hamilton is his hero. Always watching tennis, Liverpool highlights and spent his whole time on YouTube.
"Growing up he was an introvert and kept himself to himself, but when he stepped on to the court he fully expressed himself with his aggressive game style, as you saw in Melbourne."
Bambridge, Edmund and Evan Hoyt would win the 2011 Junior Davis Cup in Mexico, beating Italy in the final. "If you've been in a team with him he is an exceptionally good team player and man to have on the team," Bambridge added. "You can always rely on him to put in the best possible performance. There is no lower gear for him."
Bambridge has kept tabs on his development, and also watched closely at how he manages his coaches. While Hilton and Rosengren are working with Edmund at the moment, Plews, Black, Colin Beecher, Greg Rusedski, James Trotman and Ryan Jones also had spells coaching Edmund.
"How he's done his coaching is exceptional; some said it was unfair," Bambridge said. "He hasn't allowed relationships to get stale. He maximises his knowledge from a coach. Mark Hilton is an amazing coach for him. His philosophy is based around being competitive. It's little bits which he's developed in time which have all come together."
Hilton felt Andy Murray's guidance -- Murray invited Edmund to his training camps in the past -- and Edmund's role in the Davis Cup triumph in 2015 have helped move his game forward but he has always been aware of this bubbling talent, which had not quite come to boil until Melbourne.
He has worked with Edmund, in an official capacity, since last year's Wimbledon, having previously coached Liam Broady and Dan Evans. It was happenstance as both were looking for new challenges after the U.S. Open. Edmund brought in Rosengren, and it was a perfect marriage, as Rosengren brought the nous of having guided top-10 players and those in the last throes of Grand Slams, while Hilton understood the small improvements Edmund needed in his game.
The training sessions were mixed up, to replicate match circumstance. On some days Edmund would undergo a grueling four-hour, non-stop training session; on others, they'd do it in stops and starts, other occasions would be focused around technique. All the while they were fine-tuning his game, and improving accuracy.
"What we wanted to see was the end product where he could use his biggest weapons like his forehand -- so the small technical changes we've done to make his serve more consistent and accurate have led to that on the match court," Hilton said.
"That's the biggest challenge when the margins are so small. For him to commit to the change it's a brave thing, it might go backwards."
They also wanted to try to manifest his ability into confidence on-court; the preseason split between Roehampton and the Bahamas played a role in this alongside the work of his strength and conditioning coach Ian Prangley.
"To be able to produce in 40-degree heat against very, very good tennis players was the goal, as he did against Kevin Anderson in round one [in Australia]," Hilton said. "These players are going through ups and downs over a year. Winning solves a lot of issues, belief and trust in the game. Getting over the line in matches, he didn't have that mentality in the past as it is tough."
And with those wins came confidence, a bullishness in his own ability that showed when he bellowed "get the referee, I'm not having it" in challenge to chair umpire John Blom during his semifinal with Cilic.
Hilton watched from London, keeping a close eye on his phone as his wife Laura was due to give birth to their second child last Monday. The wait goes on, but Hilton has now had time to reflect on Edmund's Australian Open journey.
"It gives him a belief that he can be there in those back ends of tournaments," Hilton said. "He's still very young in his career so to have that experience will stand him well, give him confidence knowing he can go deep in those events. It is strong, but he knows about the small margins.
"The Davis Cup is hugely important for him, to represent his country and the success they've had from 2015 and it means everything to him.
Recalling Edmunds' attitude as a 10-year-old, Plews added: "He was always serious. On one of the trips, I can't recall exactly when it was, but he asked whether he could make it. To be fair, I gave a stock answer, but I said 'yeah, of course you can, if you can remain as focused.' It was a serious question, from a little kid. He's always had his eyes on the end game and that original goal sheet showed that.
"He came out of that semifinal with Cilic with a lot of credit. There's nothing negative at all to take from the experience. He won five matches back-to-back at the elite level. It's great news for Team GB."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Dylan Alcott has claimed a fourth-straight Australian Open crown, defeating top-seeded American David Wagner in the quad wheelchair singles final.
Parochial support on Rod Laver Arena cheered their home-town hero to a 7-6 (7-1) 6-1 success in 90 minutes.
While it was the same result as every year since 2015, Alcott said his 2018 success came with extra trimmings.
The five-time Paralympic gold medallist's semi-final with rival and great mate Heath Davidson was played on Friday night on Melbourne Park's centre court, beamed to an audience of hundreds of thousands on the Seven Network.
It was a breakthrough moment for disability sport that Alcott cherished.
"I remember when I was a little kid I used to ask my parents and brother why I never saw anyone like me on TV.
"Kids today won't have to ask that.
"That means the absolute world to me."
On Saturday, the 27-year-old didn't look back from the first tiebreak.
After a first-set arm wrestle, Alcott conceded the first point of the tiebreak but raced away with the next seven to claim the set.
With razor-sharp focus, Alcott won the second set in 32 minutes, making just three unforced errors on the way.
This was no walkover - Wagner was pushing the Melburnian to his limits.
A stunning run-down of a drop shot and last-gasp winner denied Wagner a break point at a crucial moment in the second set.
Alcott's success turned the tables on the pair's earlier meeting at Melbourne Park, when Wagner won their group-stage meeting in three tight sets.
"Thanks to Dave," Alcott said of Wagner, a previous title winner at Melbourne Park, "I bloody love playing you - it's always such a tough battle."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Caroline Wozniacki beat Simona Halep in the final of the Australian Open to lift her first Grand Slam title. (0:48)
MELBOURNE, Australia -- Caroline Wozniacki is a Grand Slam champion. We repeat, Caroline Wozniacki is a Grand Slam champion.
For more than a decade, Wozniacki -- who on Monday will be the new world No. 1 -- was forced to wait in the hope that one day she'd clinch a major title. After 2 hours, 49 minutes of high-intensity, back-and-forth tennis, she finally has one.
Wozniacki's 7-6 (2), 3-6, 6-4 Australian Open final triumph over Simona Halep left everyone at Rod Laver Arena breathless, and it had nothing to do with the sweltering conditions that forced the players to take a 10-minute break heading into the final set.
More than seven years after appearing in her first Grand Slam final, Wozniacki slumped to the ground when Halep drilled a ball into the net, giving the Dane her coveted major silverware.
How about a few nuggets?
Wozniacki is the first Danish player to win a Grand Slam title.
The match was the third-longest Australian Open women's final (by games) in Open era history and the longest since 1981.
Wozniacki is just the second woman in the Open era to win a Grand Slam title after saving match points in the first two rounds of the tournament.
Wozniacki regains the No. 1 ranking, exactly six years to the day since she last held it.
Pretty good stuff, no?
Speaking to the media after the win, Wozniacki said she was relieved.
"Regardless [of winning or losing the final], I think I've had an incredible career," she said. "The end of the day, I think a lot of people would like to be in my position.
"Honestly, nobody knows how much work, dedication you put into it. All I could tell myself was, 'You know what, you've given it everything you have.' If it's going to happen, it's going to happen. Obviously, adding a Grand Slam to my CV is what caps it off, and really, I think, shows my whole career as a whole."
Oh, and her win garnered just a few responses from social media:
I got too nervous to watch but woke up to @CaroWozniacki new number one and aussie open champ. So awesome. So happy. Are those tears? Yup they are. 😭 from a year ago to today I'm so proud my friend so proud. Literally can't even sleep now
Congratulations @CaroWozniacki - welcome to the Club.
WHAT. A. MATCH.@CaroWozniacki wins her maiden Grand Slam with victory against Simona #Halep in the #AusOpen Women's Final!🇩🇰🏆 pic.twitter.com/ZbofMHgjAQ
That grand feeling!@CaroWozniacki beats Simona Halep in a thrilling #AusOpen final to win her first major title and reclaim the world No. 1 ranking. pic.twitter.com/J0EuyDqtsO
A wonderful advert for women's tennis. 💥 https://t.co/6r4Fto8MaA
Congratulations to both @CaroWozniacki and @Simona_Halep for gutsy performances tonight and welcome to the Major Winner Club,Caro:), and #1 again!!! https://t.co/LiGWkHNgzA
Incredible heart and fight from both players...amazing women's final with Simona and Caroline! Congrats to both!
Congrats @CaroWozniacki! New @AustralianOpen CHAMPION and World No. 1! 🏆🎾🇩🇰🔝#AusOpen #Wozniacki
I think one of the best women's final I ever seen. Talking about incredible fighters on the court tonight. I am so sad one had to lose because they both were beyond AMAZING!!! @Simona_Halep @CaroWozniacki @AustralianOpen @EurosportFrance #AusOpen #Wozniacki #Halep pic.twitter.com/ErOfw5x0md
How good was that match?! Women's tennis keeping everyone on the edge of their seat! Congratulations to both @CaroWozniacki and @Simona_Halep - Thank you for representing us in such a remarkable way on and off the court! What a tournament.💞🎾@AustralianOpen @WTA
Absolutely amaaaazed. What a battle from both 😮 Can't help but feel sorry for Halep.. @WTA @AustralianOpen pic.twitter.com/6d0k8dLbA4
Big congrats to @CaroWozniacki for finally capturing her first grand slam title.🏆👏👏👏 #AusOpen
What a final of the @AustralianOpen thank you @Simona_Halep and @CaroWozniacki for this amazing fight. Congratulations to both of you #womentennisrocks
What a final !!!!! Congrats @CaroWozniacki !!! 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻@AustralianOpen
World #1 ✅ Grand Slam Champ ✅ @CaroWozniacki YOU earned it!!! 🏆 #AusOpen
#AusOpen 🏆 and 🌎  #1! Huge congrats, @CaroWozniacki! 🎉 Nobody more deserving. #hardworkpaysoff #goodpeople
Congrats #CarolineWozniacki on your 1st #GrandSlam #title @australianopen #welldeserved @ Rod... https://t.co/v6hD3j6TbO
What a great final 👌 wow!!! Congrats @CaroWozniacki 🏆 well worth the wait to get your 1st grand slam title, so well deserved. And hats off to @Simona_Halep what a fantastic tournament 🎾 #ausopen #champs #girlpower
Well done Caroline Wozniacki for winning her 1st GS. Persistence,  Determination, Drive and willing  to be more aggressive got her there.  Couldn't have asked for a better women's final.
Despite losing her third Grand Slam final, Halep -- who revealed she struggled with tendon issues in both feet during the final -- remained upbeat.
"I can still smile," she said. "It's fine. I cried, but now I'm smiling. Is just a tennis match in the end. But, yeah, I'm really sad I couldn't win it.
"[Wozniacki] was better. She was fresher. She had more energy in the end."
If anyone had any doubt about the severity of Hyeon Chung's blisters that forced him to retire in the second set of his semifinal against Roger Federer, check out this Instagram post. Warning to those with weak stomachs, though:
 . Tonight, I tried very hard to bring my utmost energy to the tennis court as usual. However, I had to make a tough decision given that I cannot compete 100% against Roger, in front of many tennis fans. Please understand. I wish all the best luck for @rogerfederer in the finals. 오늘 저녁 제가 할 수 있는 최선을 다했습니다. 경기를 포기하기 전 많은 생각을 했습니다. 많은 팬분들 앞에서,훌륭한 선수 앞에서 내가 100%을 보여주지 못 하는건 선수로서 예의가 아닌거 같아서 힘든 결정을 내렸습니다. 며칠 뒤에 있을 결승전에 로저 페더러 선수에게 행운이 있기를!
A post shared by  Hyeon Chung (@hyeon519) on Jan 26, 2018 at 5:27am PST
Chung pulled out late in the second set, handing the 19-time Grand Slam champion an easy ride to the final, where he will meet Marin Cilic on Sunday.
What a moment for Dylan Alcott, who won a fourth straight Australian Open title on Saturday, taking out top-seeded American David Wagner in the quad wheelchair singles final.
Playing in front of his home crowd at Rod Laver Arena, Alcott won 7-6 (7-1) 6-1 in 90 minutes, and while he's taken out the championship at Melbourne Park every year since 2015, he said Saturday's win was extra special.
FOUR IN A ROW BABY @AustralianOpen #ausopen pic.twitter.com/aXPmKWFOFK
His semifinal against rival and friend Heath Davidson was played on Friday night on Melbourne Park's center court and broadcast live to hundreds of thousands on the Seven Network.
Alcott said it was a breakthrough moment for disability sport.
"I remember when I was a little kid, I used to ask my parents and brother why I never saw anyone like me on TV," the five-time Paralympic gold medalist said.
"Kids today won't have to ask that. That means the absolute world to me."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MELBOURNE, Australia -- How can you not feel for Simona Halep? Three major finals, three losses. Devastating, right? This was the kind of loss that could leave so many athletes distraught and questioning their abilities, wondering if they were destined to never win on the big stage.
But nothing of the sort. Halep was understandably disappointed after her 7-6 (2), 3-6, 6-4 loss in a gripping Australian Open final to Caroline Wozniacki on Saturday, a result that also saw her lose the No. 1 ranking. But there Halep was, in the press conference, answering question after question with a smile on her face. She was optimistic and confident. She was clear. This result won't impede her quest to finally win a Grand Slam.
It took her 43 attempts in majors, including 11 at Melbourne Park, but Caroline Wozniacki can finally call herself a Grand Slam champion.
No one deserves to spend quality time with a Grand Slam trophy more than Caroline Wozniacki, which is exactly what the 2018 Australian Open champion is going to do.
Caroline Wozniacki captured her first Grand Slam title at the Australian Open, rebounding in the third set to beat Simona Halep 7-6 (2), 3-6, 6-4.
What a nice contrast to the way she looked after the French Open final last year, when she led Jelena Ostapenko 3-1 in the final set only to lose five straight games, the match -- and the championship. The loss hurt because Halep felt she should have won. Most people thought she was going to win. It was a tough day, and by all accounts a pretty significant setback.
On Saturday, there was no self-recrimination. She was proud of the way she fought and the way her mind told her aching body to suck it up until the end.
"I can still smile," Halep said. "It's fine. I cried, but now I'm smiling. It is just a tennis match in the end. I'm really sad I couldn't win it. I was close again, but the gas was over in the end."
In many ways, the upbeat nature of her postmatch press conference echoes just how far Halep has come in the past year. Always a fighter on court, Halep has worked hard to eliminate any negativity and self-criticism. It was so bad last spring that her coach Darren Cahill almost walked away from his job out of frustration with his pupil's comportment.
But this is a new, positive Halep. She is confident and more willing to let her aggressive game overwhelm opponents.
"This loss was different [in every way]. I played better," Halep said. "I didn't move as I wanted because I couldn't. But the game was OK, the mental part was OK. So I think I have improved a lot this tournament.
"I'm leaving Australia with many good thoughts and many positive things because what I've done these two weeks, I never did that in the past."
Considering that she almost had to retire during her second-round match when she turned her ankle, the rest of the Aussie Open was a testament to her fighting spirit. She saved three match points against Lauren Davis in the third round and two against Angelique Kerber in a semifinal. That takes gumption.
Her ankle was still bothering her Saturday. And the stifling, humid conditions throughout made it even more of a physical battle. Halep had her blood pressure taken before the first set ended and complained of dizziness and a headache. But she battled on. Halep said she actually recovered nicely in the deciding set.
In an interview with ESPN.com before the match, former No. 1 players Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova said whoever lost the final should not get too down on herself because they possess the ability to win a Grand Slam title. Perhaps Halep can look to the example of Evert, who lost her first three Grand Slam finals but went on to win 18.
"Yes, but I want to win," Halep said, again smiling. "I'm still losing, and I'm still waiting. Maybe the fourth one will be lucky."
Halep hit 40 winners, 15 more than Wozniacki, and though she made more unforced errors (47 to 25), Halep had very few regrets. Maybe she could have been more aggressive in the first-set tiebreaker, and maybe she could have gone for more at the end of the match. But as she said, her body wouldn't let her.
When she was coming forward, taking the ball early, she was the better player. Deep inside, Halep knows that is what she needs to do to finally procure the major she wants. Maybe that is why she left Melbourne Park feeling optimistic.
"So I will keep doing that," she said. "[But first], I will have a long break."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Chris McKendry, Bethanie Mattek-Sands and Jason Goodall are thrilled for Caroline Wozniacki but "gutted" for Simona Halep. (2:07)
MELBOURNE, Australia -- It was the biggest moment of Caroline Wozniacki's life, yet after she watched Simona Halep drill the final point into the net, the soon-to-be No. 1 player in the world didn't quite know what to do.
They always tell athletes to "act like you've been there," but Wozniacki had never experienced this moment of being a Grand Slam champion. She dropped her racket, and her body followed, leaving her stretched out on the ground. As she looked skyward, she put her hands to her face and cried.
That reaction seemed about right for a first-time Grand Slam champion, which Wozniacki can call herself after Saturday's unforgettable 7-6 (2), 3-6, 6-4 win over Halep.
It took her 43 attempts in majors, including 11 at Melbourne Park, but Caroline Wozniacki can finally call herself a Grand Slam champion.
From the fourth-most attempts to win a Grand Slam title to the most taken to win in Melbourne, here are some of the notable numbers from Caroline Wozniacki's Australian Open win.
Caroline Wozniacki captured her first Grand Slam title at the Australian Open, rebounding in the third set to beat Simona Halep 7-6 (2), 3-6, 6-4.
Well more than an hour after the on-court pomp and circumstance and the off-court photo ops and interviews, Wozniacki sat alongside the trophy in the media room, looking at it in such a loving way that her fiancé, former NBA champion David Lee, might have been just a little bit jealous.
"She's beautiful, isn't she," Wozniacki said, caressing the side of the trophy with her left hand. "Being here with the Australian Open trophy is something that is incredibly special to me. I'm just going to really, as I said before, try to soak this moment in, try to enjoy it as long as possible."
It's about time for Wozniacki, who Monday will have the added bonus of officially becoming the new No. 1 player in the world -- six years to the day since she last held that distinction. That ranks as the longest gap between stints atop the game.
Not a bad distinction to go along with the beloved trophy and a $3.2 million check.
Wozniacki earned that money on a remarkable night of tennis, which is a far cry from what many people expected when the Australian Open began.
The disappointment that was felt when Serena Williams pulled out two weeks before the tournament was only heightened when Venus Williams and defending US Open champion Sloane Stephens were dispatched on the first day.
More upsets ensued. Garbine Muguruza, Jelena Ostapenko and Johanna Konta were among the top seeds who fell early in the tournament.
But not to worry. This match Saturday was played at such a high level -- and with so many anxious moments -- that a stress test should have been a requirement upon exit. The 32 games they played were tied for the third most ever in an Open era women's final.
In a match that featured many long points (Wozniacki won 27 of the 50 rallies of nine shots of more), both players ended points appearing completely spent at times.
"Every time, I was like, 'Oh, I can't do this anymore. I'm exhausted.' And we were playing all these crazy-long rallies," Wozniacki said. "I'm looking over there, she looks a little tired. She must be feeling the exact same way or maybe more tired than me."
The hot, humid temperatures played under the open roof led officials to give the players an extra 10 minutes between the second and third sets.
But that was of no help to Halep, whose cramps and headache during the match added to a long list of ailments that she had to overcome over the past two weeks.
Wozniacki broke Halep in the second game of the third set, which was the start of a wild sequence of four straight games where each player was broken twice. Wozniacki would eventually come back from a break down, at 4-3, to win the last three games and 10 of the last 14 points.
Wozniacki not only walked out of Melbourne Park with her first Grand Slam, but she also left as the first Danish player to win a major tennis title.
For Halep, let's hope she doesn't carry this burden too long, not after an incredible tournament run where she severely sprained her ankle, survived a marathon match that lasted 48 games and endured a tough three-set semifinal.
"I had too many long matches," Halep said. "The body wasn't ready."
Wozniacki, physically, was ready for the classic match that was so nerve-wracking that Serena Williams made the wise decision not to watch.
Williams did tweet her congratulations to Wozniacki afterward:
"Woke up to @CaroWozniacki new number one and aussie open champ. So awesome. So happy. Are those tears? Yup they are. From a year ago to today I'm so proud my friend so proud. Literally can't even sleep now."
Williams was referring to Wozniacki's comeback after an injury-prone 2016 season and getting beat here in the third round.
Wozniacki finished 2017 strong, though, winning the WTA Finals and finishing the year at No. 3 in the world.
She entered the 2018 Australian Open with a ton of confidence, and now she's a Grand Slam champion.
"I've proved that I can beat anyone out there on court," Wozniacki said, grinning ear to ear. "When you're in the finals, I'm not going to lie, I was really nervous before going out there on court. But once I kind of settled in and we had the warmup, I was just like, I have everything to win."
Just over a week ago, Wozniacki was down 5-1 in the third set and facing what seemed like a certain early exit. On Saturday, she was cuddling a new friend.
"From being almost out of the tournament to sitting here with the Australian Open trophy, it's amazing," she said. "I think being new Grand Slam champion and world No. 1 sounds pretty good."
Then Wozniacki looked, again, at the Daphne Akhurst Memorial Cup.
"Right now," she said. "I'm going to go home and sleep with Daphne."
It's been a long time coming.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Jerry Bembry from The Undefeated provides his take on the winners and losers at the Australian Open. (2:01)
MELBOURNE, Australia -- After a fortnight of enthralling and captivating tennis at Melbourne Park, Caroline Wozniacki and Roger Federer emerged as the singles champions for 2018.
It was an action-packed two weeks which saw records shattered, controversies erupt, temperatures soar, an emergence of bright young stars and champions old and new.
From becoming the first man to join the 20-majors club to becoming the second-oldest man to win a Grand Slam title, here are some of the numbers from Roger Federer's Australian Open win.
No one deserves to spend quality time with a Grand Slam trophy more than Caroline Wozniacki, which is exactly what the 2018 Australian Open champion is going to do.
Here's some of the best stats from a thoroughly enjoyable tournament Down Under:
For the first time in history, the men's Grand Slam final was played under a closed roof.
At 36 years, 137 days, Federer became the second oldest male player to win a major and oldest since Ken Rosewall in 1972. It was his 20th major title, making him the fourth male or female player in tennis history to reach that mark, joining Margaret Court, Serena Williams and Steffi Graf.
The 2018 Australian Open marked the 200th Grand Slam since the start of the Open Era. With Federer winning his 20th major title, it means that he's accounted for 10 percent of the majors over that time.
Wozniacki's became the first Danish male or female to win a major title title. Her rise to No. 1 in the world came 2,665 days after she first held the top ranking.
1965 was the last time both the men's and women's Australian Open finals went to deciding sets.
And now, without further ado, here's a look back at how the 2018 Australian Open unfolded:
Day 1 of the tournament was certainly one to forget for the American contingent with Venus Williams, Sloane Stephens, Jack Sock, John Isner and CoCo Vandeweghe all sent packing in surprise upsets.
It added to the pain of seeing Serena Williams -- the 2017 ladies champion -- withdrawing from the event before it had got underway.
So disappointing were the Americans early on that by the conclusion of the third round just three of 31 remained in the running for singles glory: Madison Keys, Tennys Sandgren and Bernarda Pera.
So who was the biggest disappointment? It has to be Stephens, who since winning the US Open last year has gone 0-8 in professional matches. However, the 24-year-old insisted "nothing's going wrong."
"It's just the first two tournaments of the year. It happens," Stephens said after her first round loss to Shuai Zhang. "I'm sure it's happened to other players, as well."
Some of the biggest names in Hollywood descended on Melbourne Park and helped add to the festive atmosphere.
First it was Will Ferrell who gatecrashed a Federer post-match interview before having the entire Aussie Open media contingent in stitches during the most hilarious 'press conference' of the tournament.
Then it was Will Smith's turn to take the spotlight. The actor watched Nick Kyrgios take on Jo-Wilfried Tsonga from behind the baseline before switching to a courtside seat.
His back-and-forth with Kyrgios after the clash had fans at the stadium, and those watching from home, in stitches.
Just like in previous years, Nick Kyrgios arrived at Melbourne Park with enormous expectation on his shoulders. However, something was a little different in 2018. He appeared a more mature and composed version of the Kyrgios who suffered a second round meltdown against Andreas Seppi in 2017.
The talented 22-year-old breezed by Rogerio Dutra Silva and Viktor Troicki to set up an entertaining third round clash against boyhood hero Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.
The Frenchman threw everything at Kyrgios but struggled to contain his power-serving and heavy hitting. Kyrgios would go on to win in four sets, his first victory on Rod Laver Arena.
However, it would be the final victory of his tournament with Kyrgios falling to good friend and world No. 3 Grigor Dimitrov (7-6, 7-6, 6-4, 7-6) in a high-quality fourth round contest.
Not a bad result and certainly a whole lot better than compatriot Bernard Tomic who failed to even qualify for the draw.
Would it really be an Aussie Open without soaring temperatures?
The tournament began in cool, overcast conditions but by Day 4 the mercury had risen to an unbearable 39ºC (102.2ºF). However, even with the scorching heat, Aussie Open officials still opted against enforcing the Excessive Heat Policy, at least until after the second set of the women's final.
Novak Djokovic and Gael Monfils can consider themselves two of the more unlucky players. The pair met in the second round and spent two and three quarter hours on court before the six-time Australian Open champion prevailed 4-6, 6-3, 6-1, 6-3.
💦  #AusOpen pic.twitter.com/jB3z90IpYG
Djokovic's comments made post-match certainly raised a few eyebrows: "We're all blessed to have great financial compensation, great lives [but] at the same time, what is most important for us is our health and what happens after our careers. There are many players [who] can't physically walk, run, jog, whatever. They're struggling some way or another, health-wise or physiologically."
Fortunately the weather cooled off for the next few days before ramping up once again for both the men's and women's finals.
Hyeon Chung. Tennys Sandgren. Kyle Edmund. These aren't names you generally associate with the second week of a major, but this wasn't no ordinary Slam.
The trio of relatively unheralded players slayed some of the game's biggest names en route to quarterfinal -- and for Chung and Edmund -- semifinal berths.
Chung announced himself with a stunning straight sets win over six-time Aussie Open champion Novak Djokovic in the fourth round before overcoming Sandgren -- who earlier defeated Stan Wawrinka and fifth seed Dominic Thiem -- in the last eight.
For a brief moment Andy Murray became a forgotten man as compatriot Edmund wowed crowds and even let Britain dream of another men's singles champion. His greatest scalp in the tournament came when he knocked off No. 3 seed Grigor Dimitrov in the quarterfinals, but was unable to back up when he met Cilic in the semis.
On the women's side, we got a taste of the future when 15-year-old Ukrainian Marta Kostyuk progressed to the third round while plenty of past champions including Venus Williams and Maria Sharapova endured tournaments to forget.
Tennys Sandgren's incredible run to the quarterfinals was one of the feelgood stories of the tournament, until his controversial social media history came back to bite him.
The previously unknown journeyman, who at 26 came to Melbourne with an 0-2 Grand Slam record and had spent the majority of his career playing in lower-level Challenger events, captured the public's imagination with an unlikely run to the last eight before falling to rising star Hyeon Chung in straight sets.
But he won't only be remembered for his tennis this past fortnight after some of his social media activity appeared to link him to alt-right ideologies.
After bowing out of the tournament, Sandgren addressed the press but rather than immediately taking questions, he read a prepared statement, taking aim at the media for "putting people in these little boxes so that you can order the world in your already assumed preconceived ideas ... with a handful of follows and some likes on Twitter, my fate has been sealed in your minds."
His statement didn't wash with many inside and outside of his press conference. The same day as his defeat to Chung, former women's world No. 1 Serena Williams told Sandgren -- who deleted all of his messages on social media -- there was an "entire group of people that deserves an apology."
He did apologise soon after, for a post from 2012 in which he said a visit to gay club had "left his eyes bleeding," before then penning a lengthy statement ahead of the men's final.
pic.twitter.com/26bhoIONau
It was a tale of two very contrasting singles champions. On the men's side it was the indestructible Roger Federer, perhaps the greatest player to ever pick up a tennis racket, who prevailed and captured his 20th Grand Slam title after defeating Marin Cilic 6-2, 7-6 (5), 6-3, 3-6, 6-1 in a gripping final.
Chris Fowler, John McEnroe and Patrick McEnroe break down Roger Federer's Australian Open victory over Marin Cilic.
However, on the women's side it was a completely different scenario: A first time winner in the form of Caroline Wozniacki. The Dane tasting her first major success after triumphing in an epic, rollercoaster three-setter against Simona Halep.
Two contrasting champions, but two absolutely deserving champions.
Congratulations @CaroWozniacki - welcome to the Club.
I got too nervous to watch but woke up to @CaroWozniacki new number one and aussie open champ. So awesome. So happy. Are those tears? Yup they are. 😭 from a year ago to today I'm so proud my friend so proud. Literally can't even sleep now
Congratulations to @rogerfederer, @AustralianOpen men's singles champion and GOAT! pic.twitter.com/uernEtmTiR
Nobody makes me cry like Roger Federer...no one... there is no one like him...
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Roger Federer earns his sixth Australian Open victory and 20th Grand Slam title overall by defeating Marin Cilic. (2:33)
MELBOURNE, Australia -- As he had been the entire tournament, Roger Federer was cool and composed until the very end of his match. He stood at the podium on Rod Laver Arena on Sunday, addressing the crowd with a new piece of hardware in his right hand and running off a long list of thank yous.
But as he got to the end of his remarks, Federer broke down and cried. It was the moment, the pressure, the emotions leading up to the match. You'd think he'd be used to it by now, but the feeling never gets old.
Federer won the Australian Open championship with a 6-2, 6-7 (5), 6-3, 3-6, 6-1 win over Marin Cilic. In the past 12 months, Federer has won back-to-back Aussie Open titles and three Grand Slam championships in all to bring his total to 20 (extending his own record).
Just when things looked bleak, Roger Federer picked up his game down the stretch to win the Australian Open.
Was there a more perfect way for the 2018 Australian Open to end than Roger Federer capturing his 20th Grand Slam title? We think not.
Roger Federer won his 20th Grand Slam singles title on Sunday, defeating Marin Cilic in a tense, back-and-forth Australian Open final 6-2, 6-7 (5), 6-3, 3-6, 6-1.
He accomplished his latest major at 36 years, 173 days, making him the second-oldest player to win a Slam in the Open era. That, clearly, will make a grown man cry.
"I'm happy I can show emotions and share it with the people," Federer said during his on-court speech. "If I got emotional, it's because it was a full crowd again. This is for them also."
Federer has had better stretches in his career, especially that incredible run from 2005 and 2007, when he won eight of 10 Grand Slam titles. Yet you can argue that his accomplishments these past 365 days are more impressive because of what he had to do to get here.
Who wins a major after being away from competitive tennis for six months? Not only that, but before he beat Rafael Nadal here in 2017, Federer hadn't won a Slam in more than four years. That's a long time. It's been a while, but you might have forgotten about the whispers before last year's win.
Federer's top rivals (Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray) are younger and more athletic. Not only that, but Federer's body was failing him. He was in the twilight of an amazing career. Done.
But there was Federer on Sunday making a nervous Cilic miss so poorly that the 29-year-old Croatian was forced to change his racket just two games into the match.
Federer bounced effortlessly in that first set, strategically moving Cilic around the court as if he were a chess pawn. From there, the match was more competitive; at one point, it even appeared Federer was in real trouble after the fourth set. But then Federer regrouped and ran away with the fifth for the win, capping off an astonishing 12 months.
Federer is playing arguably the best tennis of his career after a drought that was so long we didn't even think of him as a legitimate threat to win a major anymore. The rebound is unprecedented.
Can you name another all-time great athlete who has come back from such a sharp decline to achieve greatness again?
True, Michael Jordan led the Chicago Bulls to three championships, retired for nearly two years, then came back to win three more titles. That was something special, but he was still in the prime of his career when he returned. Federer was 35 -- ancient for a top-level tennis player -- when he started winning again.
Perhaps if Tiger Woods can return back to championship form and win a few majors following the derailment and decline of his career that began in 2009, maybe we'll see something that rivals Federer's current run. But what are the odds of that?
When Federer finally met with the media nearly two hours after his match, he was wearing a T-shirt with the letters RF superimposed on the number 20. Even though that apparel will show up soon on the shelves of a sporting goods store near you, he said he didn't give that number too much thought going into the final.
"I was not allowed to think of it," Federer said, "because that's exactly when things go bad, when you think too far ahead."
As he got closer to the title, "20" eventually crossed Federer's mind in the hours leading up to the final match.
"All day I was thinking, 'How would I feel if I won it? How would I feel if I lost it?' I'm so close, yet so far," he said. "I've had these moments in the past, but maybe never as extreme as tonight."
Federer came through and completed a 365-day cycle that defies logic. There's just no other way to put it. And he's doing it at a time when the other elite players in the game are not in a great place.
Murray had surgery before the Australian Open and never played. Djokovic attempted a Federer-like comeback after a long hiatus, but he was bounced here in the fourth round. And Nadal had to retire in the fifth set of his quarterfinal against Cilic.
Then there was Federer, the senior member of that group, hoisting the Australian Open championship trophy.
Again.
Asked how long he'll be able to play at this high of a level and against players who are bigger, stronger and younger, Federer said, "I have no idea. I've won three Slams in 12 months. I can't believe it myself. I just have to keep a good schedule, stay hungry and then maybe good things can happen."
We have no doubt they will.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Roger Federer earns his sixth Australian Open victory and 20th Grand Slam title overall by defeating Marin Cilic. (2:33)
MELBOURNE, Australia -- As he had been the entire tournament, Roger Federer was cool and composed until the very end of his match. He stood at the podium on Rod Laver Arena on Sunday, addressing the crowd with a new piece of hardware in his right hand and running off a long list of thank yous.
But as he got to the end of his remarks, Federer broke down and cried. It was the moment, the pressure, the emotions leading up to the match. You'd think he'd be used to it by now, but the feeling never gets old.
Federer won the Australian Open championship with a 6-2, 6-7 (5), 6-3, 3-6, 6-1 win over Marin Cilic. In the past 12 months, Federer has won back-to-back Aussie Open titles and three Grand Slam championships in all to bring his total to 20 (extending his own record).
Just when things looked bleak, Roger Federer picked up his game down the stretch to win the Australian Open.
Was there a more perfect way for the 2018 Australian Open to end than Roger Federer capturing his 20th Grand Slam title? We think not.
Roger Federer won his 20th Grand Slam singles title on Sunday, defeating Marin Cilic in a tense, back-and-forth Australian Open final 6-2, 6-7 (5), 6-3, 3-6, 6-1.
He accomplished his latest major at 36 years, 173 days, making him the second-oldest player to win a Slam in the Open era. That, clearly, will make a grown man cry.
"I'm happy I can show emotions and share it with the people," Federer said during his on-court speech. "If I got emotional, it's because it was a full crowd again. This is for them also."
Federer has had better stretches in his career, especially that incredible run from 2005 and 2007, when he won eight of 10 Grand Slam titles. Yet you can argue that his accomplishments these past 365 days are more impressive because of what he had to do to get here.
Who wins a major after being away from competitive tennis for six months? Not only that, but before he beat Rafael Nadal here in 2017, Federer hadn't won a Slam in more than four years. That's a long time. It's been a while, but you might have forgotten about the whispers before last year's win.
Federer's top rivals (Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray) are younger and more athletic. Not only that, but Federer's body was failing him. He was in the twilight of an amazing career. Done.
But there was Federer on Sunday making a nervous Cilic miss so poorly that the 29-year-old Croatian was forced to change his racket just two games into the match.
Federer bounced effortlessly in that first set, strategically moving Cilic around the court as if he were a chess pawn. From there, the match was more competitive; at one point, it even appeared Federer was in real trouble after the fourth set. But then Federer regrouped and ran away with the fifth for the win, capping off an astonishing 12 months.
Federer is playing arguably the best tennis of his career after a drought that was so long we didn't even think of him as a legitimate threat to win a major anymore. The rebound is unprecedented.
Can you name another all-time great athlete who has come back from such a sharp decline to achieve greatness again?
True, Michael Jordan led the Chicago Bulls to three championships, retired for nearly two years, then came back to win three more titles. That was something special, but he was still in the prime of his career when he returned. Federer was 35 -- ancient for a top-level tennis player -- when he started winning again.
Perhaps if Tiger Woods can return back to championship form and win a few majors following the derailment and decline of his career that began in 2009, maybe we'll see something that rivals Federer's current run. But what are the odds of that?
When Federer finally met with the media nearly two hours after his match, he was wearing a T-shirt with the letters RF superimposed on the number 20. Even though that apparel will show up soon on the shelves of a sporting goods store near you, he said he didn't give that number too much thought going into the final.
"I was not allowed to think of it," Federer said, "because that's exactly when things go bad, when you think too far ahead."
As he got closer to the title, "20" eventually crossed Federer's mind in the hours leading up to the final match.
"All day I was thinking, 'How would I feel if I won it? How would I feel if I lost it?' I'm so close, yet so far," he said. "I've had these moments in the past, but maybe never as extreme as tonight."
Federer came through and completed a 365-day cycle that defies logic. There's just no other way to put it. And he's doing it at a time when the other elite players in the game are not in a great place.
Murray had surgery before the Australian Open and never played. Djokovic attempted a Federer-like comeback after a long hiatus, but he was bounced here in the fourth round. And Nadal had to retire in the fifth set of his quarterfinal against Cilic.
Then there was Federer, the senior member of that group, hoisting the Australian Open championship trophy.
Again.
Asked how long he'll be able to play at this high of a level and against players who are bigger, stronger and younger, Federer said, "I have no idea. I've won three Slams in 12 months. I can't believe it myself. I just have to keep a good schedule, stay hungry and then maybe good things can happen."
We have no doubt they will.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
An emotional Roger Federer thanks the fans after winning the Australian Open. (1:17)
Roger Federer went where no man has gone before on Sunday in Melbourne, joining Margaret Court, Serena Williams and Steffi Graf in the exclusive club consisting of players who won at least 20-Grand Slam singles titles.
Historic firsts are destined to be duplicated. Think of Babe Ruth's 700 home runs, Edmund Hillary's ascent of Mount Everest, swimmer Mark Spitz's seven gold medal Olympic performance. All have been equaled or eclipsed. But it's hard to imagine another man surpassing Federer. He earned this 20th at age 36 in his 19th year as a professional.
Only Aussie Ken Rosewall won a major at a later age, yet his career haul was just 12 majors, many of them earned before the game was opened to professional players in 1968.
Just when things looked bleak, Roger Federer picked up his game down the stretch to win the Australian Open.
We know Roger Federer is a superstar, but seriously, what he continues to accomplish is like nothing we have ever seen before in sports.
Marin Cilic said it was tough to acclimatize to playing the Australian Open final under a closed roof against Roger Federer indoors after practicing outdoors earlier in the day when the temperature reached a high of 100 degrees.
"All day I was thinking, 'How would I feel if I won it, how would I feel if I lost it?'" Federer said after the landmark win over No.6 seed Marin Cilic. "I'm so close, yet so far. I think I was going through the whole match like this. I've had these moments in the past, but maybe never as extreme as tonight. Getting to 20 is obviously very, very special, no doubt."
Federer's epic demonstration came at an excellent time for the ATP. Here was the beloved ambassador for the game, playing like a spry teenager as he shattered another men's record. But his feat utterly overshadowed a different story, one that may keep tennis administrators up at night in the coming days: The unexpected collapse of the group known as the Big Four.
It's almost certainly the end of an era, even if Federer's continued mastery mutes the fact.
This story is a darker one, because it's not like Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic, and Andy Murray, all of whom are over 30, are just running out of steam after enjoying great careers [you can include Stan Wawrinka in this group]. They're grappling with the perils of growing older in a punishing sport as they try to keep up with Federer. They've paid a high price, and it just may be that what they've really done is make The Mighty Fed look that much greater. If that's even possible.
This was the event at which the Big Four, the quartet that has ruled tennis for over a decade [with an assist from Wawrinka], was to re-form. Djokovic and Murray were returning from long layoffs due to injury, presumably to challenge No.1 Rafael Nadal and No. 2 Roger Federer. The two junior members were the ones who had elbowed aside their elders to rule from 2013 through 2016.
Both men left the tour with injury after absorbing quarterfinal beatings at Wimbledon last year. Neither 30-year-old is healed. Murray, the winner of three major singles titles and two Olympic gold medals in singles, is in worse shape. He had to resort to career-threatening hip surgery last month, when it became clear that rest and rehab simply weren't going to fix his hip.
Djokovic is a more complicated case. His three-year period of utter dominance came to a halt when he completed his career Grand Slam at the French Open in 2016. It was his 12th -- and most recent -- Grand Slam title. Troubled by lax motivation and private struggles, he hasn't been the same since. The elbow injury has further muddied the water.
Beaten by 21-year-old Korean sensation Hyeon Chung in the fourth round in Melbourne, Djokovic told the press: "I felt the level of pain was not that high that I need to stop the match. I wish I could have a little bit had more free points on the first serve, but I didn't. That's life. I have to move on."
The two main storylines in Melbourne intersected in the fate of Nadal, who was penciled in for a championship rematch with Federer. But yet another in the seemingly endless series of injuries that have plagued Nadal in recent years intervened, and he had to retire midway through the fourth set of a quality quarterfinal match with Cilic.
"It is really tough to accept," Nadal said after he quit. "Especially after a tough December [Nadal had to forgo his usual preparations while still nursing a bad knee]."
Nadal's inner hip muscle injury isn't serious; he will only be out of action for about two weeks. But the recurring breakdowns are cause for concern in the 31-year-old's camp, as they interfere with his training and fitness regimen. The winner of 16 majors has missed eight Grand Slam events due to injury since he first appeared in one in 2003.
Just by being himself, Federer is turning up the pressure on everyone else. While players undoubtedly are performing better later in their careers, take Federer out of the equation and you see a lot of over-30 players struggling to hang on, but slipping. Recently that number included that pair of popular over-30 French stars, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Gael Monfils.
Federer is doing great despite the slow hard courts and strings that encourage endless rallies, but others, including some even younger players, are suffering. Milos Raonic and Kei Nishikori, both former Grand Slam finalists, are 27 and 28 respectively. They were MIA in Melbourne due to lingering injuries. Rising star Nick Kyrgios, currently No. 16, is just 22 but already showing signs of wear and tear.
"Somebody who is running the tour should think little bit about what's going on," Nadal said in Melbourne. "Too many people getting injured ... I don't know if they have to think a little bit about the health of the players. I don't know if we keep playing in this very, very hard surfaces what's going to happen in the future with our lives."
The statistics tell us that the last six majors were won by players over 30. It's easy to embrace that, and celebrate these "mature" athletes. But Federer accounted for half of those titles. Nadal [two] and Wawrinka [one at 30, one at 31] claimed the others, and one had to quit and the other barely started in Melbourne.
Federer makes it seem that the conventional wisdom about age and athletic achievement is a fiction. In having to keep up with him, his peers are demonstrating that it most certainly is not. Enjoy it while you can.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The United States advanced to the Davis Cup quarterfinals after beating Serbia for the first time thanks to a four-set doubles win Saturday.
The U.S. ran into Novak Djokovic in the previous losses, but without him, Serbia was eliminated 3-0 and a day early in Nis.
Switzerland, without Roger Federer, suffered the same fate in Astana, where host Kazakhstan won 3-0 after a nearly 3 1/2-hour doubles.
Timur Khabibulin and Aleksandr Nedovyesov, playing their second Davis Cup doubles, defeated Marc-Andrea Huesler and Luca Margaroli 6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 6-7 (5), 6-3, and await Croatia or Canada in April.
The Swiss, since winning the title in 2014, have lost in the first round each year since.
U.S. pair Ryan Harrison and Steve Johnson beat Serbia team Nikola Milojevic and Miljan Zekic 6-7 (3), 6-2, 7-5, 6-4 to cap singles wins by Sam Querrey and John Isner.
The Americans will have a home quarterfinal against Belgium or Hungary.
Belgium, the 2017 finalist which was 2-0 up on Hungary after Friday, failed to clinch the tie in Liege when Ruben Bemelmans and Joris de Loore lost to Attila Balazs and Marton Fucsovics 6-3, 6-4, 6-7 (2), 4-6, 7-5 in a match lasting more than four hours.
David Goffin, 22-3 in cup singles, is favored to clinch the tie in the first reverse singles on Sunday against Marton Fucsovics, who will be playing his third match in three days.
Defending champion France moved 2-1 ahead of the Netherlands in Albertville after two-time major winners Pierre-Hugues Herbert and Nicolas Mahut came through against Robin Haase and Jean-Julien Rojer 7-6 (6), 6-3, 6-7 (3), 7-6 (2).
"We were lucky," France captain Yannick Noah said. "The Dutch boys were starting to believe in themselves."
Adrian Mannarino has the first shot Sunday at completing France's comeback and an 11th successive win against the Dutch.
Australian Open singles finalist Marin Cilic was summoned by Croatia just hours beforehand to combine with Ivan Dodig, but the old partners almost took too long to get energized against Canada. The 45-year-old Daniel Nestor and Vasek Pospisil won the first two sets but couldn't hold on and lost 2-6, 3-6, 6-4, 7-5, 6-2.
Cilic is playing only doubles, and leaving Borna Coric to try to win the tie Sunday against Denis Shapovalov in Osijek. Canada hasn't won an away tie since 2011.
Spain led Britain 2-1 in Marbella after Pablo Carreno Busta and Feliciano Lopez dusted off Dominic Inglot and Jamie Murray 6-4, 6-4, 7-6 (4).
In the absence of Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray, the first reverse singles on Sunday will be between Albert Ramos Vinolas and Cameron Norrie. But Australian Open semifinalist Kyle Edmund practiced after the doubles and could be available for Britain.
Germany led Australia 2-1 in Brisbane thanks to Tim Puetz and Jan-Lennard Struff prevailing against Matthew Ebden and John Peers 6-4, 6-7 (1), 6-2, 6-7 (4), 6-4.
The visitor was also up in Morioka, where Italy led Japan after Simone Bolelli and Fabio Fognini outlasted Ben Mclachlan and Yasutaka Uchiyama 7-5, 6-7 (4), 7-6 (3), 7-5.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MADRID -- Rafael Nadal says he is on track to returning to the ATP Tour in Acapulco this month.
The top-ranked Nadal says on Monday he is recovering well from the left leg muscle injury that forced him to retire in the Australian Open quarterfinals last month. He was in the fifth set against Marin Cilic.
Nadal says he is undergoing intensive treatment to make sure he is fit to play in the Mexico tournament, which starts on Feb. 26.
Nadal was in Madrid to inaugurate a sports medicine clinic dedicated to tennis.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
BUCHAREST, Romania -- Simona Halep says she will miss Romania's Fed Cup series against Canada this weekend because of an ankle injury sustained at the Australian Open.
"After spending the last week resting and trying to recover from my injury from the Australian Open, unfortunately it has not recovered quickly enough," Halep said on her Facebook page.
Halep said in the post that she would travel with the Romanian team to support her teammates "in this very important tie."
However, organizers of the Dubai Tennis Championships said Wednesday she would take part in the tournament she won in 2015.
Halep had a grueling time in Melbourne last month, badly twisting her ankle and battling her way through two marathon matches to the final, where she lost to Caroline Wozniacki.
It was the third time she has been runner-up in a Grand Slam final.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
All eyes will be on Serena Williams this weekend when she makes her much-anticipated return to competition as part of the United States Fed Cup team. The U.S. will play the Netherlands in Asheville, North Carolina, beginning Saturday.
Having spent just over a year off the tour to have her first child, Alexis Olympia, Williams will be joined by sister Venus Williams, CoCo Vandeweghe and Lauren Davis.
It's unknown right now whether Serena, who pulled out of the Australian Open just weeks before it began, will play singles, doubles or both, but nonetheless, her performance should be a good indication of what kind of shape she is in.
"She's such an amazing, incredible athlete," this year's Australian Open winner Caroline Wozniacki recently told ESPN.com. "I would never write her off. The thing about Serena is she's never going to come back unless she feels she's where she wants to be tennis-wise, physically and mentally."
While Williams has not played competitive tennis in more than a year, it's not the first time she's had an extended absence from the game. Most recently, she missed three consecutive majors, from 2010 to '11, after suffering life-threatening blood clots, yet she managed to reach the US Open final two months after her return.
But this time Williams will be 36 when she sets foot on the tennis court. Still, whatever her results are, most experts believe she hasn't lost her motivation.
"She wants to keep going," said ESPN tennis analyst and 18-time major winner Chris Evert. "She wants that 24th [Grand Slam title] to tie Margaret Court. I think Wimbledon would be her best chance. I don't think she wants to stay out there on the clay all day and hit balls. When you get older, you lose a little patience."
Still, despite the stellar efforts from Wozniacki, who won the WTA Finals in October and the Australian Open last month, no one else from the field has consistently stepped up.
In case you didn't know, things won't be easy for Serena Williams when she returns to the tour. And it has nothing to do with her own form.
A little success is better than none at all, no? The U.S. men, who did not fare well in Australia, aced the start of Davis Cup season.
The United States won its doubles match against Serbia, clinching a berth in the Davis Cup quarterfinal round against the Hungary-Belgium winner in April.
"More players are playing better tennis, but I think nobody's really grabbed it," Martina Navratilova, also an 18-time major winner, told ESPN.com. "Consistency is lacking for [the chasing pack] to be able to compete against Serena. You need to have that in everyday results, and then you need to have it within your game when you play Serena. She may see more new faces but she's still got the field covered."
But it might take time, perhaps longer than we think for Williams to fully return to the player we last saw at the winner's podium in Melbourne last year.
"Sometimes Venus and Serena like to play their way into a tournament," Billie Jean King said. "I don't want her to think like that. She's also older, so you have to work smarter."
Twelve years ago, Evert wrote an open letter to Serena, asking her if she considered her place in history. Evert said Williams could become the greatest player in history if she dedicated herself. Now, with Williams one Slam win away from tying the all-time record, Evert believes that while the rest of the field might not be as intimidated, at least early on, Williams is so ultra-competitive that they'd better take caution.
"Whenever you doubt her, she gets mad and does it with a vengeance," Evert said.
That alone is advantage enough.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The Williams sisters discuss Serena becoming a mother and how the Fed Cup is a great opportunity to represent the USA. (1:40)
ASHEVILLE, N.C. -- It was fitting she was the last player announced. As Serena Williams strolled toward the podium for the draw of the 2018 Fed Cup, the crowd that showed up Friday at the U.S. Cellular Center rose in unison.
As the fans clapped loudly in one instant, while vigorously snapping rapid-fire photos, Williams soaked it all in and smiled.
All eyes will be on her this weekend as Team USA takes on the Netherlands in Asheville, North Carolina, to see how far she's come since becoming a mother.
Four different women have won major tournaments since Williams played in her last event, the 2017 Australian Open, where she beat sister Venus in the final.
A sign that the game has moved on without her?
Hardly. Serena is still the top attraction in her sport. But a look at her limited mobility as she took swings this week made it clear it's going to take some time.
Williams won't carry any type of load (or pressure) this weekend, as she is scheduled to play only a doubles match alongside Lauren Davis on Sunday. It's like giving Houston Astros pitcher Justin Verlander the ball in the last inning of a 10-run game.
Venus, who did not play in the 2017 Fed Cup, and CoCo Vandeweghe, who last year led the United States to its first title in 17 years, will play singles.
For Serena, this will be her first appearance since losing an exhibition match in Dubai against Jelena Ostapenko at the end of last year, a performance that showed her she wasn't ready to defend her Australian Open title.
Serena Williams won't be playing in either of Saturday's Fed Cup singles matches as she returns to competitive tennis this week, five months after becoming a mother.
In case you didn't know, things won't be easy for Serena Williams when she returns to the tour. And it has nothing to do with her own form.
Will she or won't she crush it on the tennis court again?  OK, it's a rhetorical question when it comes to Serena Williams, but a word to the wise:  It could take a little time.
"It's almost relaxing for me because I have nothing to prove," Serena Williams said. "Just fighting against all the odds to be out there and be competing again."
The key word there is compete -- not to be confused with "dominate." Getting back to top form is going to be a grind.
It's going to take time for Williams, who is playing her first Fed Cup event since 2015, to get focused on her longer-term goals.
"Right now, my main goal is to just stay in the moment," Williams said.
But Williams, a 23-time major winner, did say the pursuit of the all-time Slam record still motivates her. Right now, she trails Margaret Court by one.
We'll soon see how that endeavor is impacted by motherhood. For much of her career, Williams' entire focus has been tennis. For those who follow her on Instagram, they know that being a mother to 5-month-old Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr. has her fully engaged.
"It's an amazing journey -- probably been the most fun of my life," Williams said. "It's a totally new experience, and I love motherhood and I look forward to just being the best mom I can be."
If anyone can combine being the best mom she can be with being the best tennis player, it's Serena. She's a fierce competitor and is embarking on this tennis journey only because she still thinks she can return as the game's most dominant player.
There is precedence. Margaret Court gave birth to her first child in March 1972 and then won the last three Grand Slams in 1973. Kim Clijsters also won three majors after giving birth, while Evonne Goolagong took home two.
Shortly after the draw was announced, Williams gathered to take a group picture with her teammates. Suddenly music started playing through the arena's PA system, and she instinctively started to bounce to the beat.
The song: Beyonce's "Run the World (Girls)."
Williams hopes to again run the world of tennis, win more majors and surpass Court. But again, it's going to take time.
For now, she's just soaking in the journey. The quest to reclaim the throne can wait.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
An Ashleigh Barty trifecta helped Australia avoid an almighty Fed Cup upset against Ukraine in Canberra on Sunday.
The World Group II tie was pushed to the deciding doubles match after an out-of-form Daria Gavrilova sensationally dropped both her singles rubbers.
World No. 16 Barty backed up her two singles wins by reigniting her successful doubles partnership with Casey Dellacqua to deliver Australia a 3-2 win.
The result means Australia advances to the World Group play-offs in April, putting them one win away from the Fed Cup's top-eight nations for the first time since 2015.
An opponent for Australia's play-off match is expected to be announced on Tuesday night (AEDT).
An emotional Dellacqua celebrated her 33rd birthday by defeating Ukraine's twin sisters Nadiia and Lyudmyla Kichenok 6-3 6-4 with Barty in what she said was a career highlight.
A text message from Samantha Stosur, who made herself unavailable for the tie, on Sunday morning reminded Dellacqua about the live doubles rubber win the pair had in Slovakia in 2016.
"This tops that... being here at home in Canberra and playing for your country is definitely one of the best moments of my career," Dellacqua said.
The result saved face for Australia, with Ukraine entering the tie as serious outsiders due to being without world No.3 Elina Svitolina and being led by teenage prodigy Marta Kostyuk on her Fed Cup debut.
Australia requested the tie to be played on grass, with a temporary surface laid for Canberra's first Fed Cup tie in 20 years.
After Barty overcame early nerves to defeat Lyudmyla Kichenok 4-6 6-1 6-4 in the opening rubber on Saturday, Kustyok, 15, responded by upsetting world No.26 Gavrilova to level the tie 1-1.
Barty and Kustyok were up first on Sunday, with the Queenslander too strong for the Ukrainian dubbed the next Martina Hingis, winning 6-2 6-3.
But Gavrilova's troubles on grass continued in her reverse singles rubber, with unranked Nadiia Kichenok delivering a shock 4-6 6-2 6-3 triumph.
Ukraine captain Mikhail Filima subbed in Nadiia for Lyudmyla only minutes before the match in what proved to be a masterstroke.
Gavrilova said she was shattered by her defeats, but tried to put it behind her quickly.
"I was crying so much after the match, but I had a cold shower and said 'Okay, you have to be there for your teammates'," Gavrilova said.
"I didn't have the best singles matches... to be honest I had two shockers but I've got to learn from this experience."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ROTTERDAM, Netherlands -- At the age of 36, Roger Federer is now two wins away from reclaiming the top ranking for the first time in six years.
Federer began his campaign at the ABN AMRO tournament on Wednesday with a flawless performance, defeating Ruben Bemelmans 6-1, 6-2 in just 46 minutes.
The 20-time Grand Slam champion was in complete control against the Belgian qualifier. The Swiss hit six aces, dropped only four points on his serve, and broke Bemelmans four times in the first round.
Federer will replace his old rival Rafael Nadal at No. 1 if he reaches the semifinals at the indoor tournament. By achieving the feat, he would also become the oldest top-ranked male player. Andre Agassi holds the record, at 33 years, 133 days old.
Federer next plays Philipp Kohlschreiber, a player he has never lost to in 12 previous matches.
Earlier, David Goffin eased into the quarterfinals by defeating Feliciano Lopez 6-1, 6-3. Goffin had nine aces and dropped just two points behind his first serve to extend his unbeaten record against Lopez to 3-0.
The seventh-ranked Goffin, who beat Nicolas Mahut in straight sets in his previous match, will next face sixth-seeded Tomas Berdych.
Second-seeded Grigor Dimitrov beat Yuichi Sugita 6-4, 7-6 (5) in the first round while Robin Haase won an all-Dutch contest against Thiemo de Bakker 6-2, 6-2. Dimitrov and Haase were joined in the second round by qualifier Pierre-Hugues Herbert, who advanced after Richard Gasquet retired while trailing 3-1.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -- John McEnroe was there to greet Kei Nishikori at the end of the tunnel leading from the court to the backstage area under the Nassau Coliseum. Nishikori had just won his first-round match at the New York Open on Tuesday, his first tour-level encounter since he was forced to the sideline by a severe wrist injury last summer in Montreal.
"It's great to see you back," McEnroe said as Nishikori stopped for a moment on his way to press. "Your forehand looked tremendous tonight. You hit a very sweet ball out there."
Nishikori grinned. McEnroe chuckled, adding that Nishikori ought to come in to net a little more frequently behind some of those atomic groundstrokes. "Yeah, I'm trying," Nishikori said. "I just need to get more matches."
Kei Nishikori returned from a long injury layoff with a first-round victory at the New York Open in his first main tour match since last August in Montreal.
At the age of 36, Roger Federer is now two wins away from reclaiming the top ranking for the first time in six years.
Tennis player Donald Young has made an allegation of racial prejudice against fellow American Ryan Harrison, saying he was "shocked and disappointed" by remarks during a heated exchange at the New York Open, which Harrison has said is "untrue."
With Nishikori gone, an onlooker asked McEnroe, "Think he'll take that advice?"
"He'd better, or else, forget it, man," McEnroe replied. "He's been No. 4 in the world. But where can he go from here?"
A lot depends on his health. Nishikori has paid an incrementally higher physical price as the years have passed, including that extended wrist injury.
Nishikori, 28, is a former Grand Slam finalist, but he appears mired -- albeit on exceptionally high ground -- in his place in the tennis hierarchy. He has rarely been able to crack the code of the Big Four, who have dominated Grand Slam events for a decade and a half.
No player born in the 1990s has won a Grand Slam event, and that includes Nishikori, who reached the 2014 US Open final. Only four players have been ranked No. 1 on the ATP computer since 2004, and by now, you know who they are.
So many of the talented challengers to Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray have struggled to keep pace, and like Nishikori, they have spent a lot of time on the injured list. It suggests that the group is burning itself out trying to keep up.
"Yeah, I feel the pressure to work harder," Nishikori told ESPN.com on Sunday before the start of the tournament. "But it gives me good motivation. I had many injuries. I have to work a lot more off the court, but I'm going to keep trying."
Milos Raonic, a 27-year-old former Wimbledon finalist who has been ranked as high as No. 3, is in a similar situation. He has played just two matches this year, losing both. He was derailed last summer by leg and wrist injuries. He's down to No. 31 in the rankings.
Grigor Dimitrov, another under-30 player on the short list of competitors once expected to evolve into Grand Slam champions, has yet to make a major final. But at least he has remained healthy and is getting closer.
McEnroe, who coached Raonic to the 2016 Wimbledon final, told ESPN.com, "Milos had kind of the same thing happen as Kei. He pushed it; he wanted desperately to get better. It hasn't been easy for either of them. They're trying desperately to figure out how to win a major, but you have to wonder if they're going to miss out."
That question took on new dimensions early this year because of a dramatic shift in the tennis landscape. The Big Four continued to impersonate tennis supermen right through the middle of last year, but then the underpinnings fell away. Between then and the end of January, Djokovic, Murray, Nadal and even Stan Wawrinka were all laid low by injury.
Suddenly, this appears to be a year of enormous opportunity.
But as Nishikori approaches 30, the toll taken by his style is likely to become more pronounced. He is, of course, injury-prone and down to No. 27 in the rankings, which means the Japanese star will have to put in a lot of time on court, grinding out wins against tougher opponents early on -- a potential physical plight that will no doubt test his rebuilt wrist.
"It's very tough to maintain the balance," Nishikori said of his attempt to get adequate competition, quality rest and high-grade preventative training. "If you're not in the top three or four, you have to play a lot of tournaments. Many guys got injured last year, but you have to accept that and keep working on your physical [fitness] every week."
Nishikori's reluctance to embrace a more aggressive style hurt him in his battles against the Big Four. But given the compromised state of the ruling quartet, he just might be able to spin his wheels free and find the form that led him to a near title in New York nearly four years ago.
"Take Federer out of equation, and it's unpredictable," McEnroe said. "Somebody has to tell these guys there's this opening, and it's been as big as it's been in 10 years."
Nishikori is listening. It's just a matter of whether his body is as well.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DOHA, Qatar -- Petra Kvitova defeated top-ranked Caroline Wozniacki again to reach the Qatar Open final and extend her winning streak to 12 matches on Saturday.
Kvitova overcame Wozniacki 3-6, 7-6 (3), 7-5 in 2 1/2 entertaining hours, and will play Garbine Muguruza in the final.
Muguruza advanced when her scheduled opponent, second-ranked Simona Halep, withdrew from the tournament on Friday because of a right foot injury.
A win on Sunday could lift Kvitova, ranked 21, back inside the top 10. The Czech star, a two-time Wimbledon champion and once ranked No. 2, took an extended break after being stabbed by a knife-wielding burglar at her home in December 2016. After winning in St. Petersburg, Russia, this month, plus two Fed Cup singles, she's on the second-best winning streak of her career.
Kvitova beat Wozniacki for the eighth time in 13 matchups, including the past four.
But Wozniacki made the running for the first set and a half.
Wozniacki had a chance to serve out the match in the second set at 5-4 and 6-5. But both times Kvitova broke right back. She was 3-1 down again in the tiebreak, but reeled off six straight points to force a third set.
In the third, Wozniacki made a crucial hold in the seventh game after double-faulting at 30-all.
It was then Kvitova's turn to dig deep in the next game, when she double-faulted twice to go down 15-30 but also managed to hold her serve.
A stunning return shot won Kvitova the ninth game and gave her an opportunity to serve for the win, but Wozniacki broke back to level at 5-5. Kvitova, however, broke right back, and finally served out the set and match. She hit 50 winners to 14 by Wozniacki.
"I don't know what happened," Kvitova said. "I felt like I was crazy a little bit in my mind and I was playing it everywhere, except for the court. I was just trying to calm down in the second set. I was just trying to wait for that opportunity.
"In the tiebreak when I was down 3-1, I was just really angry with myself so I just tried to hit some winners. That's how that ended."
Wozniacki was disappointed at failing to serve out the match twice in the second set.
"She has a difficult game to play against when she's on, but as well when she isn't, because you don't get any rhythm and you know that eventually she's going to start hitting those balls in and you need to be ready for it," she said.
Kvitova has a 3-1 record against fourth-ranked Muguruza, including winning their last match, in the US Open fourth round.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -- Sam Querrey had everything figured out Saturday except his math.
The No. 2 seed lost track of the score and didn't realize he had closed out the match when he beat fourth-seeded Adrian Mannarino 6-7 (5), 7-5, 6-3 in the semifinals of the New York Open.
Querrey won the final four games at Nassau Coliseum, but thought he had one more to go as he walked toward the bench following his second straight service break.
"I broke, I kind of like gave a fist pump and I was walking to the bench, and then the crowd was a little like too loud for just a break of serve and I looked up and, 'Oh my gosh, I won,'" Querrey said.
He advanced to face top-seeded Kevin Anderson, the US Open runner-up from South Africa, in the final Sunday. Anderson beat fifth-seeded Kei Nishikori of Japan, the tournament winner from 2013-16 when it was played in Memphis, Tennessee, 6-1, 3-6, 7-6 (4) in the night match.
The 11th-ranked Anderson is guaranteed a return to the top 10 for the first time since October 2015. The three-time tour winner would jump to a career-best No. 9 with a victory Sunday.
"I didn't even know that going into it," Anderson said when informed during his press conference that he was back in the top 10. "I know I've been a little bit close for the last few months. Obviously it's a great accomplishment being in the top 10. I was there for just a week a couple years ago and I had a few challenges to face but I've worked really, really hard to get back to this spot so that's a good piece of news that you just gave me there."
Nishikori was playing his tournament since August in a return from a wrist injury.
"I think I'm back on the track again," he said. "I think I played three good matches here, so I think I'm playing better again. I hope I can win a tournament as soon as possible."
Querrey fought off three break points while serving at 2/3 in the third set, then broke Mannarino in the next game and cruised from there, closing out the match in just under 2 hours for his first victory over the Frenchman in four career meetings.
The U.S. Davis Cup player said he couldn't remember ever losing track of the score on the ATP Tour.
"I think I was just so dialed in because I wanted to beat him so badly because I've never beat him before," Querrey said.
The 30-year-old Californian is ranked a career-high 12th. He has 10 ATP Tour victories, winning last year in Los Cabos and Acapulco.
Querrey has won three of the past four meeting with Anderson to take an 8-7 lead in the series. The American won their only previous match on an indoor hard court, winning in 2012 in Memphis.
Mannarino is still seeking his first ATP Tour title. At No. 25, he is the highest-ranked player without one.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. -- Top-ranked Jack Sock lost Wednesday night to fellow American Reilly Opelka 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 in the second round of the Delray Beach Open.
The 6-foot-11 Opelka, ranked No. 228, hit 17 aces. With two victories this week, he has doubled his 2017 win total.
No. 6-seeded John Isner hit 30 aces and swept all 18 of his service games but lost to Peter Gojowczyk 7-6 (3), 6-7 (4), 7-6 (5). Isner won only nine points on Gojowczyk's first serve and fell to 1-4 this year.
No. 9 Milos Raonic, the 2017 runner-up, lost to American Steve Johnson 6-2, 6-4. Johnson lost only 12 points on his serve.
American Donald Young, the runner-up in 2015, was eliminated by Evgeny Donskoy 7-6 (6), 6-3.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -- It's difficult to pinpoint just when the chip settled firmly on Ryan Harrison's shoulder, but it seems that the former prodigy is ready to slough it off.
A decade ago at 15, Harrison became one of only 10 players in ATP history to win a tour-level match before turning 16. But his adolescent dreams of glory were gradually displaced by frustration and a sense of failure. By the time Harrison hit 21, he seemed locked into a downward spiral. His year-end ranking plummeted to No. 199 in 2014, and his reputation was evolving from that of a fiery competitor into that of a hothead who, with a little patience, could be goaded into self-destruction.
"If I was giving a scouting report on myself," Harrison told ESPN.com at the New York Open, "I would have advised the person to just stay composed and patient, wait for Harrison to explode."
But Harrison has taken great strides toward reversing his fortunes. He's been striving to control his emotions and play calmer and smarter tennis. He cracked the top 50 in February of 2017, then hit a career high of No. 40 in July. He also won his first ATP main-tour event last year at Memphis, and sweetened the surge by winning a Grand Slam doubles title with partner Michael Venus at the French Open.
Top-ranked Jack Sock lost Wednesday night to fellow American Reilly Opelka 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 in the second round of the Delray Beach Open. With two victories this week, Opelka has doubled his 2017 win total.
On Monday, February 19, Roger Federer will become the oldest top-ranked player in tennis at the age of 36. With Federer, nothing is impossible, so we took a look at some other records he could attain.
Defying the odds with his resurgence, 36-year-old Roger Federer leaped over Rafael Nadal to reclaim the world No. 1 ranking, the oldest man or woman to top computerized rankings.
Harrison has built on that success this year, already logging one final at Brisbane. At the Australian Open, he won two rounds before losing to eventual finalist Marin Cilic. The key to his resurgence has been his redefinition of success.
"I wanted to turn it around for a long time, to show everyone -- including myself -- that I'm not a failure," he said. "But when you're trying to do that, every match feels like a life-or-death affair. I had to change that. I had to accept that success is just doing all that you on any given day. Put in the hard work, compete as hard as you can, implement your game plan. When you do that, it's a successful day no matter what else happens."
It's been a difficult lesson to absorb, because Harrison must live with his temper. It has often undermined his own efforts and also outraged or offended some of his peers and spectators. It's something he's had to manage and sometimes battle on a daily basis. "There's a fine line between fiery and angry," Harrison's coach, Michael Russell, told ESPN.com. "The needle sways a few degrees in the wrong direction and he's in trouble."
Harrison remains a work in progress, but he's no longer facing that challenge alone. Last April he married Lauren McHale, a former All-American tennis player at the University of North Carolina (and sister of WTA touring pro Christina). She's become a rock for him. The USTA has also played a significant role, thanks to a shift in the organization's player-development strategy under new Head of Men's Tennis Brian Boland.
The American federation focused for a long time mostly on identifying and helping very young players. But it recently embraced a new initiative to be more proactive with veteran players who are struggling to move up a class or two.
"Our thinking was based on the demands of the pro tour these days," Martin Blackman, General Manager of USTA Player Development, told ESPN.com. "You see what the top guys have in terms of a team: a master coach, a traveling coach, a physio, a trainer. We decided we could do more for some of our guys who were out there, maybe doing OK, but trying to make it without much support."
Harrison, now 25, has been one beneficiary of the USTA's new philosophy. The organization brokered and is underwriting the coaching deal between Harrison and Russell, although the player and coach go back a long way -- all the way back to the 2009 Yuba City Challenger, where a then 15-year-old Harrison fought his heart out before yielding to Russell, a legendary grinder, 7-5 in the third set.
"Even then, he fought incredibly well, and his serving mechanics were outstanding," Russell said. "I knew he would develop real weapons."
Those weapons include a powerful forehand and one of the best second serves on the tour. But Harrison has yet to take full advantage of those assets by embracing a more vigorous attacking game. "I'm always in favor of being more aggressive and taking more opportunities to attack," Russell said. "Obviously his success in doubles shows he can handle volleying."
Harrison isn't worried about his upside.
"I know what I'm capable of," he said. "Looking at it objectively, my serve is already top 10. My defensive skills are up there, the ability to create is there. The thing I have to do better is win those gritty baseline points."
That was Russell's stock-in trade, and it's an understandable shortcoming in a mercurial player. In order to overcome it, that self-control Harrison has been cultivating has to stick. He's making progress, but still there are momentary lapses, like in a recent first-round match at the New York against fellow American Donald Young, when the two began to exchange words and had to be separated by the chair umpire. Eventually, Harrison regrouped and won the match.
"You wouldn't want to take Ryan and make him mellow," Russell said. "You don't want to wipe out that competitive persona. You just have to make sure it doesn't turn into a negative."
It may have hurt Harrison to dive into the deep end of the pool so young, but he's philosophical about the past.
"It hurt me in that I wasn't quite ready for all of it," he said. "But even if you told me at 15 what was to come, I still would have just said,'Bring it on!' I just wasn't mature enough. But everybody has obstacles they go through. If I started later I probably would have faced them later."
Harrison's hasn't entirely cleared his obstacles, but he feels he's getting there.
Bring it on.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MARSEILLE, France -- Third-seeded Frenchman Lucas Pouille and fourth-seeded Czech Tomas Berdych advanced to the Open 13 semifinals on Friday.
Pouille beat eighth-seeded Filip Krajinovic of Serbia 7-6 (5), 3-6, 6-4, hitting 20 aces and securing victory on his first match point when he broke Krajinovic's serve for the first time.
Berdych led 7-6 (4) when seventh-seeded Damir Dzumhur of Bosnia-Herzegovina pulled out feeling sickly.
"He was ill all night, it can't be easy to play in the shape he was in," Berdych said. "I was in the same situation last week."
Pouille is looking for his second straight title after winning the Open Sud de France two weeks ago and plays 193rd-ranked qualifier Ilya Ivashka of Belarus in the semifinals. Berdych will face Karen Khachanov of Russia, who beat Berdych in the second round of the French Open last year.
In their quarterfinals, Khachanov had 16 aces in beating local Julien Benneteau 6-4, 6-4 and Ivashka beat another Frenchman, Nicolas Mahut 4-6, 6-3, 7-5. Mahut saved 10 of 13 break points against Ivashka, who had 13 aces.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. -- Peter Gojowczyk of Germany has had good fortune of late when playing against American opponents.
On Saturday, the 64th-ranked Gojowczyk won his eighth consecutive ATP tour-level match against an American by beating Steve Johnson 7-6 (3), 6-3 in the Delray Beach Open semifinal.
Top-seeded Elina Svitolina won her 11th career singles title, beating Darya Kasatkina in straight sets to retain her crown at the Dubai Championships.
Gojowczyk has beaten three Americans this week: sixth-seeded John Isner in the second round, Reilly Opelka in the quarterfinals and Johnson.
Gojowczyk could have a shot at beating a ninth straight American in the final.
He will play the winner of Saturday night's semifinal between 91st-ranked American Frances Tiafoe and 46th-ranked Denis Shapovalov of Canada.
"No, I don't have something about Americans, I like you," said Gojowczyk, laughing. "I don't have a preference, but maybe one more American guy."
Gojowczyk said he saw a number of the student survivors from last week's mass shooting at nearby Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in the crowd.
The tournament invited any student from the school to attend the tennis on Saturday.
Gojowczyk won his first career title as a qualifier at the Metz, France, tournament last year.
Gojowczyk served up an ace on his first set point at 6-3 in the first set tiebreaker.
Gojowczyk double-faulted to go down 30-40 in the fifth game of the second set, but saved that one break point he faced in the match.
He broke Johnson's serve on a second break point in the eighth game of the second set when the American sailed a forehand long.
"It was a great match from myself," Gojowczyk said. "It's just a great week for me here."
On Saturday morning, Tiafoe finished off Hyeon Chung of South Korea 5-7, 6-4, 6-4 in a rain-delayed quarterfinal. Tiafoe failed to take advantage of three match points Friday night before the match was stopped.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. -- Frances Tiafoe won the Delray Beach Open, with father Frances Sr. watching, on Sunday for his first ATP Tour title.
The 91st-ranked Tiafoe, the first wild-card recipient to win the title in its 26-year history, had consecutive aces on the final two points for a 6-1, 6-4 victory over Peter Gojowczyk of Germany.
At 20, Tiafoe is the youngest American to win a title since Andy Roddick won at age 19 in 2002 in Houston.
Tiafoe fell on his back in celebration and cried as he hugged his father.
"Now I'm in a position not only to help myself, but help fund my family," Tiafoe said. "It's an unbelievable place to be in, and it's bigger than tennis."
Tiafoe's parents moved from Sierra Leone to the United States looking for a better life. The elder Tiafoe ended up working as a maintenance worker at a Maryland tennis club, where the American-born Frances fell in love with the game. His twin brother, Franklin, wasn't interested in the sport.
"It's unbelievable," said Frances Sr., who now frequently travels the tour with his son. "I told them since they were little, 'Work hard and you can achieve your goal.' I told him, 'Whatever you put your mind to, you can do it.'"
Tiafoe, who should move up to approximately No. 61 in Monday's new rankings, was playing in his first career tour-level final at Delray Beach. He entered last week's New York Open, where he reached the quarterfinals, with nine career ATP tour-level match victories.
In this past two weeks, he has won seven tour matches. Among those recent victories is a second-round win over 10th-ranked Juan Martin del Potro last week.
Tiafoe was the last American to defeat Gojowczyk, which took place at the 2016 Winnetka Challenger in Illinois.
"I told you guys I was going to get him," said Tiafoe, laughing. "All the guys were texting me, `You have to take him out."
Gojowczyk had beaten his eight previous American opponents in ATP tour-level matches, including sixth-seeded John Isner, Reilly Opelka and Steve Johnson last week.
Overall, Gojowczyk had beaten the past 14 American players he faced in tour- and non-tour-level matches since that Winnetka loss to Tiafoe.
Gojowczyk was bothered by a left hamstring Sunday, which he said started during his semifinal against Johnson. The first time Gojowczyk called for the trainer to wrap his thigh was when he was about to serve with Tiafoe leading 5-0 in the first set.
"It was not my day, actually, today," Gojowczyk said. "But still it was a good week, and I reached my career-high (projected ranking of) 51 with this tournament.
"You want to compete, to go for the shots. And you want to play your best in the final."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
As soon as Frances Tiafoe cracked the ace that earned him a 6-1, 6-4 win over Peter Gojowczyk in the Delray Beach final Sunday, he collapsed and lay on his back in the dazzling Florida sunshine, arms flung at his sides.
While the thrill of his victory was no doubt justified, the 20-year-old wild card was also gassed following a breakthrough week -- one that kept placing the physical and mental bar ever higher for Tiafoe as he advanced through the draw. That spread-eagle moment probably gave him a brief moment of reprieve as well.
"I had lots of tough matches, lots of late nights and some trouble sleeping," Tiafoe said in his on-court interview, shortly after picking himself up and strolling over to share his joy with his support team.
Frances Tiafoe, 20, of the U.S. clinched his first ATP title at the Delray Beach Open, becoming the youngest American to win a title since Andy Roddick's 2002 trophy at age 19.
Argentina's Diego Schwartzman beat Spain's Fernando Verdasco 6-2, 6-4 on Sunday to win the Rio Open for his second career title. Schwartzman will enter the top 20 in the world for the first time Monday.
The International Tennis Federation says the Davis Cup will be transformed into a one-week, 18-nation World Cup of Tennis season-ending tournament beginning in November 2019.
Tiafoe also cut short speculation about his immediate future. "I'm not thinking about the rest of the year; I just want to get some sleep."
But the rest of the year looks a lot better now than it did just a few weeks ago. Tiafoe, one of the heralded #NextGenATP fleet of young players, had looked more like a candidate for #NextBust in the first six weeks of the year. He accumulated a meager three wins in five tournaments, which included the Australian Open but also a lowly Challenger event. He nearly drove off the top-100 cliff in mid-February and arrived at the New York Open ranked No. 98.
But Tiafoe perked up at that event, achieving the first ATP quarterfinal of his career. He then arrived in Delray just a day before his first match, against Matthew Ebden, who had easily handled Tiafoe in his debut match earlier this year in Brisbane.
Tiafoe evened that score, then went on to take out a string of quality opponents. If it seemed that No. 64 Gojowczyk was low-hanging fruit in the final, it was only because Tiafoe had already swept most of the blue-chip contenders off the board. First it was Juan Martin de Potro, then two of Tiafoe's more successful #NextGen rivals, Hyeon Chung and Denis Shapovalov.
This was a "pinch me" run for the Maryland native, because Tiafoe grew up idolizing del Potro. Chung was an Australian Open semifinalist, and Shapovalov is a "great friend" -- but also a slightly younger generational rival who had bolted ahead of Tiafoe in the next-big-thing sweepstakes.
The degree of difficulty shouldn't be overlooked for Tiafoe. He needed seven match points to get past Chung in a match that was delayed by rain and played over two days. Tiafoe then had to play his semifinal against Shapovalov later that same day. In the final, Tiafoe met Gojowczyk on a bright, windy afternoon after tussling with all his previous opponents in night matches.
"Look at the variety of guys he beat," Tennis Channel commentator Paul Annacone said. "When a guy gets through despite rain delays, against a diversity of opponents, playing his first day match, you have to admire his composure. They threw a lot at Tiafoe this week."
Martin Blackman, general manager for USTA player development, was deeply impressed by the performance of the emerging star.
"I saw a lot of maturity in the way Frances managed a difficult week," Blackman told ESPN.com. "There was a lot of pressure there, but Frances stayed super focused. This tournament looked like a coming-of-age event for him."
Maturity and stamina are one thing, winning the battle of the stat sheet quite another. Against Shapovalov, Tiafoe won 84 percent of his first-serve points while converting 70 percent of those first serves. Easily as important, Tiafoe won 35 percent of his return points (compared with just 23 by Shapovalov).
In the final, Tiafoe's numbers were even better. He won 89 percent of his first-serve points and 48 total points returning, 18 more than his opponent. Gojowczyk was somewhat hampered by a sore thigh that required an injury timeout. It's the kind of curveball that could sabotage the composure of a first-time finalist, but Tiafoe handled it well.
Gojowczyk had been rough on Tiafoe's fellow Americans in Delray, taking out (in order) John Isner, promising fellow 20-year-old Reilly Opelka and Steve Johnson.
"He beat almost all the American guys," Tiafoe quipped. "I'm happy I stopped him."
Jared Donaldson and Taylor Fritz also fell in Delray. With a lot of tennis still to come on U.S. soil, the future for the American game is looking a lot brighter than it did early in 2018.
You can thank Frances Tiafoe for that.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The Australians are surprised. The Brits are skeptical. The French are downright angry.
"They have just killed the Davis Cup," French tennis player Nicolas Mahut said in reaction to bold plans to transform the 118-year-old competition into a one-week, 18-nation World Cup of Tennis.
The International Tennis Federation is trying to bring some glamour and relevance to the team event, as well as lure back top players who often choose to skip Davis Cup matches amid a crowded tennis calendar.
In this latest attempted revamp, the World Cup of Tennis would be played in one location over seven days in the traditional week of the Davis Cup final in November, rather than across four weekends in February, July, September and November. There would be a total purse of $20 million.
"The essence of this historic competition is to play away or at home," Mahut, a member of France's Davis Cup-winning team last year, told French newspaper L'Equipe. "I was the first to say we needed to reform it. But not to destroy it."
Mahut's captain, Yannick Noah, tweeted on Tuesday: "They sold the soul of an historic event. Sorry mister Davis."
Proposals for the World Cup of Tennis have been devised in conjunction with investment group Kosmos, which was founded by Barcelona and Spain soccer player Gerard Pique. The partnership is worth $3 billion over 25 years.
Pique personally presented the proposal to the ITF board in Barcelona on Saturday, and ITF president David Haggerty told The Associated Press that Pique has had a "positive" response from top players like Andy Murray and Novak Djokovic.
Those two players have yet to comment publicly on the plans, but second-ranked Rafael Nadal has been quoted by Spanish newspaper Marca as saying: "It's a good initiative, and it could work."
Craig Tiley, chief executive of Tennis Australia, said his organization was "taken by surprise by the announcement.
"As one of the founding nations of Davis Cup, we have a lot of unanswered questions," Tiley said.
"Will this proposal effectively extend the season for a large section of the playing group? What are the players' thoughts, generally? Does this ultimately end the 'home and away' nature of the current competition? There's just so much we don't know."
The ITF said the proposal, which was unanimously endorsed by its board, is "subject to further development" before it is submitted at the body's annual general meeting in Florida in August. It needs approval by a two-thirds majority.
Britain captain Leon Smith acknowledged that change was necessary to "ensure longevity and status" of the Davis Cup, which was established in 1900, and was glad to see the ITF looking at significant investment from other sources.
He still had reservations, though.
"Of course, one of the first things that came to mind is the loss of the home and away tie," Smith said. "It works in other sports but remains to be seen if it could work in Davis Cup.
"For now, we'll just have to keep an open mind as we start to learn more about this proposed new structure and whatever the outcome, I hope the Davis Cup remains the most important team event in world tennis."
This is Haggerty's second attempt at what is widely viewed as a necessary revamp of Davis Cup, with the ITF forced last year to shelve its initial proposal for a World Cup of Tennis in an effort to "build consensus" for the idea. There had also been plans -- now aborted -- for the Davis Cup and Fed Cup, the equivalent for female players, to be brought together under one roof to raise the profile of the competitions.
Former American player Mardy Fish backed the latest proposal.
"Davis Cup moving to a 1 week event at the end of the year is LONG overdue," he wrote on Twitter. "Now just make it every other year and we are cookin."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
If the ITF board of directors has its way, the oft-criticized Davis Cup competition will be reborn as early as 2019 in a glorious one-week World Cup of Tennis. But a close look at the alternative format makes many wonder if the cure isn't worse than the disease.
For years, reformers have complained Davis Cup is broken, largely because of its four-week format spread across the calendar year and unreliable participation by top players. The new proposal seems to hit all the reformist notes: It will be a tournament played over one week, in one location (not yet determined and possibly changed annually), featuring 18 teams competing in a combined round-robin/knockout format. Each tie will feature two singles matches and a doubles match, all best-of-three sets.
On the surface, it sounds nicely streamlined and manageable. "I've been for this kind of change for years," U.S. Davis Cup team captain Jim Courier, an enthusiastic supporter of the plan, told ESPN.com.
The International Tennis Federation's plan to stage the Davis Cup at one location over seven days in November has gotten a mixed reaction from countries.
Yes, Frances Tiafoe won his first career tournament, at Delray Beach, but before we start asking for long-term predictions, just let him close his eyes for a while.
Roger Federer fought back the tears while paying tribute to his longtime rival Rafael Nadal after winning the sportsman and comeback of the year gongs at the Laureus World Sports Awards in Monaco.
But this plan to create what the ITF described in a news release as a "festival of tennis and entertainment" is festooned with red caution flags. Here are some of the conspicuous ones:
The makeover must be approved by a two-thirds majority at the ITF's annual general meeting
In a vote taken at last year's ITF annual general meeting in August, the member nations rejected a proposal to reduce singles matches to best-of-three sets. The ITF board of directors could not muster the required two-thirds majority required to adopt the resolution. The ITF is a one-nation, one-vote outfit. That means the vote of, say, Nigeria or Uruguay counts as much as that of Great Britain or the U.S.
Andre Stein, the head of the Belgian Tennis Federation, has already issued a statement declaring in part: "This formula is precisely what we do not want. We are absolutely against [the change] and will vote against it."
Expert's take: "The biggest holdup to change in the ITF has been the one-nation, one-vote rule. I agree that something had to be done about Davis Cup because the reality is clear -- the top guys aren't playing. But it's hard to see this going through," Stan Smith, a former world No. 1, multiple Grand Slam champion and Davis Cup hero in the early 1970s, told ESPN.com. 
It's not sitting well with some close to the game
The immediate response on Twitter and at other forums was wildly anti-reform. Disappointed and angry fans who condemned the move had plenty of support from tennis insiders and Davis Cup luminaries, including Greg Rusedski, Todd Woodbridge, and former Belgian pro turned journalist Filip Dewulf.
Some are not as turned off by it, including Rafael Nadal, who told the DPA news agency that Davis Cup needs a new solution. Others such as former pro Mardy Fish said he welcomes the idea, but thinks it would be even better if it were played every other year à la golf's Ryder and Presidents Cup.
Expert's take: "While it's always hard to abide change, I respect [having] an open mind to improvement. In this case, I will have to see it to believe it," Andre Agassi, a Davis Cup stalwart during his career, told ESPN.com in a text message. 
The proposed date is awkward
One of the few things that already has been decided is the date of the World Cup of Tennis. It will replace the mid-November Davis Cup finals, which follows the season-ending ATP World Tour Finals.
Even if Davis Cup is pushed back by a week, will the players who qualify for the ATP World Tour Finals choose to play a demanding one-week, high-stakes event again so soon?
Expert's take: "It's a bad idea to extend the season longer than it already is. The Davis Cup already has four weeks on the calendar. I'd look at the alternate scenarios for the date," Courier said.
The options for the venue are limited
Given the number of courts that will be needed, the new Davis Cup will likely be played outdoors, and it will almost certainly be played on hard courts, as are almost all the late-season ATP tournaments, including the year-end finals.
The ITF release said "several world-class cities" have expressed an interest in hosting the event, although ITF president Dave Haggerty has indicated the first edition would be held in Asia.
Chances are that the vast majority of the fans who create that colorful, raucous Davis Cup atmosphere will now have to travel far to support their teams. Davis Cup has a special atmosphere, and as Courier said, "The romance will take a major hit." Others feel the change will make Davis Cup unrecognizable.
Expert's take: "The essence of this historic competition is to play away or at home. I was the first to say we needed to reform it. But not to destroy it," Nicolas Mahut, a member of France's triumphant 2017 Davis Cup squad, said to L'Equipe.
Player participation is not guaranteed
The timing problem is obvious. Also, the appeal of playing for your country has always been the most powerful incentive for participating in Davis Cup. The further this "festival of tennis" departs from that basic script, the less desire -- and pressure -- the players will feel to take part.
The relationship between the ITF, the ATP and individual players has always been tenuous. And the bandwidth for international competition is being exhausted. The ATP has contemplated launching a new World Cup-type event, while Roger Federer and his management firm have the major stake in the Laver Cup (a new, annual competition that pits a Team Europe against a Team World), which made its successful debut last year.
The top players who choose Davis Cup will have their work cut out. It may be hard for them to avoid playing doubles unless their teams have already clinched 2-0. A player on the winning team may have to play six singles matches as well as some doubles. That's a lot.
Expert's take: "I always advocated for a two-week event, and with four weeks [previously] under control of the ITF, it should be able to do a little trading and secure a two-week window for this. Either way, I applaud this move. When you look at how the Grand Slams have grown, it's clear that the Davis Cup has been underperforming for a long time," Courier said. 
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- Serena Williams will make her long-awaited return to singles competition Thursday night at the BNP Paribas Open.
Serena Williams fell in the semifinals of the Tie Break Tens event in New York on Monday night, but she certainly received a welcome fit for a champion from the fans and her peers.
Serena Williams played her first singles matches Monday since her 2017 Australian Open victory at the Tie Break Tens event at Madison Square Garden, losing in the semifinals of the eight-woman field that also included sister Venus.
The 23-time Grand Slam winner will face Kazakhstan's Zarina Diyas in the first night match (10 p.m. ET).
Victoria Azarenka, who will see her first action of the year, will follow Williams.
Williams has not played an official singles match since winning the 2017 Australian Open last January.
On Monday, she competed in the Tie Break Tens event at Madison Square Garden and afterward told the crowd, "I had a great time. I feel so lucky to be out here, and I'm ready to play."
Last month, she teamed up with sister Venus Williams in the Fed Cup, but they lost in straight sets.
A two-time Indian Wells winner, Serena has beaten Diyas both times they've met, including at Indian Wells in 2015.
Serena could meet Venus -- who ended up in the same quarter of the draw -- in the third round at Indian Wells.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Two months ago, Serena Williams could look at the WTA landscape and justifiably sense great opportunity. Now, her radar might pick up grave danger.
"Serena is coming back to a different game," ESPN analyst Pam Shriver said. "So, the biggest question is just what this comeback is going to look like?"
Serena Williams fell in the semifinals of the Tie Break Tens event in New York on Monday night, but she certainly received a welcome fit for a champion from the fans and her peers.
Roger Federer continued to show his world No. 1 form in his "The Match for Africa" exhibition, where he partnered with Bill Gates to benefit education for children in Africa.
After a 14-month absence that encompassed the birth of her child, Serena Williams is scheduled to return to the pro tour on Thursday at the BNP Paribas Open in Southern California.
It's a development that took some by surprise. If this uptick isn't common knowledge, you can pin the blame on Roger Federer. He dominated the headlines at the Australian Open, overshadowing the fact that the WTA produced one of the greatest and most competitive Grand Slam events in years.
At the end of last year, it appeared the WTA was heading for a volatile 2018. Nobody had really stepped up to take advantage of Williams' absence. (After Williams won in Melbourne, the three other majors each had a different winner, two of them first-timers.) At best, it seemed the new year would be unpredictable; at worst, the tournaments would resemble game shows in which a wheel of fortune kicked out a surprise winner each week.
A continuation of that trend clearly would have worked in Williams' favor because she's facing a hard road back. Shriver noted that Williams has looked rusty during all three of her appearances on court this year. She lost an exhibition singles match against French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko and, with partner Venus Williams, Serena fell in a Fed Cup doubles match. On Monday night, she lost in the semifinals of the Tie Break Tens event at Madison Square Garden to Shuai Zhang.
"Unless she has one of those moments when suddenly everything clicks," Shriver notes, "you have to wonder, how does she survive Indian Wells given the heat, the compressed schedule of a 64-draw, the quality of the field? It's asking a lot."
Last year, Serena underwent an emergency cesarean section and complications, including a pulmonary embolism, ensued. Although she left the tour more than a year ago, she was bedridden for six weeks following delivery of her child in early September. The tour did not pause and wait.
Caroline Wozniacki won one of the more exciting Australian Opens in recent memory and took over the top ranking in the process. Simona Halep came up just short, but showed a fighting spirit in overcoming multiple near defeats early on in the event. She did this while dealing with some breathing issues and an ugly-looking ankle injury. Others, such as Angelique Kerber, showed signs of returning to top form.
"There's definitely a higher level of tennis now," world No. 4 Elina Svitolina told ESPN.com in New York, before winning the Tie Break Tens exhibition. "In Australia, it was even more so from the physical aspect. Tennis is improving every day. If you look back even a year ago, it was different. It's always being pushed to another level."
Tracy Austin, a former No. 1 and commentator for the Tennis Channel, said the consistency of high-level play has been evident this year.
"But, there's still not a sense of order like when Serena dominated, but a lot of things finally fell into place for some players, like Woznaicki, Halep and Kerber -- players who really needed it [to] happen. That could change things."
As if to demonstrate the new stability of the WTA is for real, the form chart after the Australian Open continued to hold up through February. Petra Kvitova, who is still on the rebound from hand surgery, won in St. Petersburg and Qatar, and Svitolina, who led the WTA in titles a year ago, won the Dubai Championships.
Last year's outsiders look ready to take the next step. The question is whether Serena Williams is ready to handle it.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- Maria Sharapova's return to the BNP Paribas Open for the first time in three years ended in a 6-4, 6-4 loss to Naomi Osaka of Japan on Wednesday night.
Sharapova's ranking of No. 41 in the world forced her to play a first-round match in the tournament she has won twice.
Maria Sharapova left Indian Wells the same way she came into the event -- with very few people paying attention.
After a 14-month absence that encompassed the birth of her child, Serena Williams is scheduled to return to the pro tour on Thursday at the BNP Paribas Open in Southern California.
She trailed 4-1 in the first set before holding serve at 4-all. But Osaka held to go up 5-4 and broke Sharapova on a double fault to close out the set.
Ranked 44th in the world, Osaka took a 4-2 lead in the second set. Sharapova broke to tie it at 4-all, before Osaka won the final two games to end the 1½-hour match.
Meanwhile, Samantha Stosur overcame a slow start to beat American Lauren Davis 3-6, 6-3, 6-3.
Two American teenagers advanced to the second round.
Amanda Anisimova defeated 94th-ranked Pauline Parmentier 6-2, 6-2 for her first WTA Tour victory. The 16-year-old Anisimova, who earned a wild card into the main draw, is the U.S. Open junior champion.
Caroline Dolehide, a 19-year-old wild card, fired 11 aces in outlasting 78th-ranked Shelby Rogers, 3-6, 7-6 (6), 6-3 in 2½ hours.
In other matches on the first day of the two-week tournament, Belinda Bencic saved a match point in beating Timea Babos, 1-6, 6-1, 7-6 (4), while wild card Eugenie Bouchard lost to qualifier Sachia Vickery, 6-3, 6-4.
Serena Williams will return to the pro tour for the first time in 14 months on Thursday, when she plays a first-round match.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- Nick Kyrgios has withdrawn from the BNP Paribas Open because of a lingering right elbow injury. He was scheduled to play his first match Saturday against Daniil Medvedev.
No. 2 Rafael Nadal, still bothreed by the hip he injured at the Australian Open in January, has pulled out of the BNP Paribas Open at Indian Wells and the Miami Open.
Ranked No. 20 in the world, the Australian initially suffered the injury during a Davis Cup match against Germany in February and hasn't played since. He will be replaced in the draw by "lucky loser" Matteo Berrettini.
Kyrgios began the year with a title at the Brisbane Open. He advanced to the fourth round of the Australian Open in January, ultimately falling to Grigor Dimitrov. Kyrgios has played only two matches since, both at the Davis Cup.
It's the second straight year Kyrgios has pulled out of Indian Wells. In 2017, after beating Novak Djokovic and Alexander Zverev, he withdrew before his quarterfinal match with eventual champion Roger Federer due to food poisoning. Kyrgios is next scheduled to play at the Miami Open.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- Maria Sharapova has split with her longtime coach after losing in the first round of the BNP Paribas Open.
She announced the mutual parting with Sven Groeneveld on Friday, two days after she was beaten in straight sets by Naomi Osaka of Japan in her return to Indian Wells after a three-year absence.
In a statement on her website, the five-time Grand Slam winner said, "After four successful and challenging years of collaboration together, I would like to thank Sven for his incredible loyalty, work ethic and most importantly the friendship that we have formed that will go beyond this working partnership. Although we have mutually agreed to part ways during this time, I have been incredibly fortunate to have a team leader like him in my corner for the past four years."
Sharapova is ranked 41st in the world since returning to the tour last year after a 15-month doping ban.
Groeneveld has worked with Monica Seles, Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, Mary Pierce, Ana Ivanovic and Caroline Wozniacki.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- The only thing rarer than a raindrop in the Southern California desert might be a Roger Federer early-round loss, and thankfully for fans, the weekend brought only one of those anomalies.   
  Federer's opening match at the BNP Paribas Open was suspended for the night Saturday during the second set as pouring rain ended the session prematurely. Less than 24 hours later, he was back on the court, where he finished off Federico Delbonis 6-3, 7-6 (6).
    Despite the straight-sets win, this was nothing short of a complicated couple of days on the court for Federer.
    Don't believe us? Here's what Federer himself had to say about the chain of events:
   
    We really couldn't put it any better ourselves.
  He was uncharacteristically sloppy -- as in 40 unforced errors sloppy. That's nearly double the winners he had. Afterward, Federer spoke of how differently the courts played between Saturday's night session and Sunday's quicker conditions during a hot afternoon.    
  "When you go from night to day [in consecutive days, you're usually] playing a different opponent," said Federer, who couldn't remember the last time he had played a match that was interrupted overnight. "So naturally, it's all a change. Whereas, here now you play the same guy the next day, so you can really compare, you know, how different conditions are. It was actually quite interesting.  
  "The nighttime is much deader. The surface doesn't react so much; the ball doesn't travel so fast. ... So talking about faster, I just think there is more bounce to it, especially if you play someone who has a lot of spin like he has and kicks the ball around a lot."    
  While Federer was far from perfect, he did improve to an unblemished 13-0 on the year and took the next step in snaring his third title of the young season. Whatever Federer is doing in the offseason, it's working. A year ago, he went on a tear, winning the Australian Open, Indian Wells and Miami -- a stretch that saw him go 20-1. 
 
  Keep in mind that during his stellar start in 2017, Federer looked beatable at times. In Melbourne alone, he needed to go the five-set distance three times, including the final against Rafael Nadal. In Miami, he nearly fell to Nick Kyrgios in an edge-of-the-seat semifinal battle that went to three tiebreakers.    
It goes without saying Federer's perseverance has been as key to his success as any ace or winner. For the first time in six years, Federer has entered a tournament as the world's No. 1 player.    
So, is there added pressure this time around?  
  "Not really," Federer said during his opening news conference here Thursday. "Just the feeling of getting back to the world No. 1 ranking is deeply gratifying. I know how much work I have put into it, and I know what I had to do to get here."  
  So you can forgive Federer if a few raindrops and overcooked groundstrokes won't deter him moving forward.      
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- Roger Federer rolled past No. 25 seed Filip Krajinovic 6-2, 6-1 in pursuit of a record sixth BNP Paribas Open title on Monday.
Federer improved to 65-5 since returning from a left knee injury last year with his third-round victory in a rare day match. The Swiss star's young son, Lenny, watched from a box wearing a Superman cap.
Serena Williams' comeback was halted by older sister Venus, who won their third-round matchup at the BNP Paribas Open 6-3, 6-4 on Monday night. In other action on the women's side, Sloane Stephens saw her struggles continue.
What he saw was his 36-year-old father overcome a shaky first set in which there were four breaks of serve. Federer hit a running forehand passing shot to break at love and take the set 6-2. Federer cruised to a 3-0 lead in the second and closed out the win in 58 minutes.
"I was playing aggressive and feeling like he was not loving my slice," said Federer, who owns the No. 1 ranking. "I was able to mix up my game nicely, make it difficult for him."
"I think the beginning of the matches are always important, get off to a good start," Federer said. "I did that."
In other matches, Borna Coric of Croatia upset No. 13 Roberto Bautista Agut of Spain 6-1, 6-3; Jeremy Chardy beat No. 20 Adrian Mannarino 7-5, 4-6, 6-1 in an all-French matchup; and No. 11 Pablo Carreno Busta of Spain defeated Daniil Medvedev of Russia 6-1, 7-5.
American Taylor Fritz outlasted Fernando Verdasco of Spain 4-6, 6-2, 7-6 (1).
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- Roger Federer rolled past No. 25 seed Filip Krajinovic 6-2, 6-1 in pursuit of a record sixth BNP Paribas Open title on Monday.
Federer improved to 65-5 since returning from a left knee injury last year with his third-round victory in a rare day match. The Swiss star's young son, Lenny, watched from a box wearing a Superman cap.
What he saw was his 36-year-old father overcome a shaky first set in which there were four breaks of serve. Federer hit a running forehand passing shot to break at love and take the set 6-2. Federer cruised to a 3-0 lead in the second and closed out the win in 58 minutes.
"I was playing aggressive and feeling like he was not loving my slice," said Federer, who owns the No. 1 ranking. "I was able to mix up my game nicely, make it difficult for him."
"I think the beginning of the matches are always important, get off to a good start," Federer said. "I did that."
In other matches, Borna Coric of Croatia upset No. 13 Roberto Bautista Agut of Spain 6-1, 6-3; Jeremy Chardy beat No. 20 Adrian Mannarino 7-5, 4-6, 6-1 in an all-French matchup; and No. 11 Pablo Carreno Busta of Spain defeated Daniil Medvedev of Russia 6-1, 7-5.
American Taylor Fritz outlasted Fernando Verdasco of Spain 4-6, 6-2, 7-6 (1).
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
In the third round in Indian Wells, Venus Williams beats Serena Williams in straight sets. (1:10)
Venus Williams defeated Serena Williams for the first time in nearly four years, getting past her younger sister 6-3, 6-4 on Monday night in the third round of the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, California.
It is Venus' first victory over Serena since August 2014 at the Rogers Cup in Montreal, and the first matchup where Venus was the higher-ranked player since the sisters met at Bangalore in March 2008.
"I'm just lucky that I've played more matches than her right now,'' Venus said in a postmatch on-court interview. "She just came roaring back. I had chances for the match to be over, but it wasn't.''
It was their earliest meeting since a 17-year-old Venus beat 16-year-old Serena in the second round of the 1998 Australian Open. They played Monday night for the first time since last year's Australian Open final, when a pregnant Serena won her 23rd Grand Slam title.
"I definitely know her well, but she definitely played a little bit better than she normally does,'' Serena said. "She served very consistently. She just did everything great.''
Serena, who was unseeded in the tournament, still leads Venus 17-12 in head-to-head meetings. She played in her first WTA tournament after a 14-month layoff for the birth of her first child.
"It's different, I haven't played in over a year. It's definitely not less disappointing, I wish it was. But then I wouldn't be who I am. ... I just have a long way to go and I look forward to the journey," Serena added.
Venus Williams attributes her victory over her sister to the fact that she has played more matches of late and talks about being a role model to the youth.
Venus closed out the 1 ½-hour match on her second match point when Serena's forehand service return sailed long. It was one of Serena's 41 unforced errors, including 17 on the forehand side.
Venus broke Serena at love in the sixth game for a 4-2 lead in the first set. She emphatically closed out the 36-minute set with back-to-back aces that clocked 108 mph and 120 mph.
Venus raced out to leads of 3-0 and 5-2 in the second set. Serena's shot went wide to set up her sister's first match point. But Serena cracked a backhand winner down the line for deuce.
Venus' forehand was long and she double-faulted away the game to make it 5-3. Serena held to trail 5-4 with an ace and a clean winner.
Venus faced two break points in the next game, but got bailed out on Serena's consecutive forehand errors to get to deuce. Venus hung on from there to end their 29th meeting.
"Missing shots that I never miss, and so close,'' Serena said. "At least they're in the margin. I'm getting there. It's not exactly where I want to be, but I'll get there eventually.''
The Indian Wells match was 17 years in the making.
The sisters were supposed to play each other in the desert in 2001. A packed stadium awaited their semifinal but shortly before the match was to begin Venus withdrew with a right knee injury. Serena went on to play Kim Clijsters in the final.
Venus and her father Richard were greeted with boos as they made their way to their seats, with some fans believing Richard had been behind Venus' withdrawal.
Richard Williams said he heard racial slurs from the crowd and he paused to shake his fist at them. Serena was booed throughout the final before she beat Clijsters in three sets for her second title in the desert. After that, the sisters boycotted Indian Wells for 14 years.
Serena came back in 2015 only to withdraw with a knee injury before her semifinal, and Venus followed the next year. Both sisters have been greeted warmly by fans each time they've played here since that turbulent time.
"It never crossed my mind,'' Venus said.
Whether it was against Venus or another top player, Serena Williams showed that while she is improving, she still has a ways to go before returning to championship-level tennis.
The sister showdown at Indian Wells more or less turned into a dominant display from Venus Williams, who beat her sister Serena in straight sets. Here's how it all went down.
Sloane Stephens, the reigning US Open champion, lost Monday at the BNP Paribas Open, but she still managed to give reporters and fans something to talk about.
In other action on the women's side, Sloane Stephens remained mired in her post-US Open slump.
Stephens, the 13th seed, lost to No. 20 Daria Kasatkina of Russia 6-4, 6-3, and fell to 2-4 in matches this year.
"I mean, not going to be too down about it," Stephens said. "There's always next week and the week after."
Kasatkina has beaten all four of the current Grand Slam champions in the past year: French Open winner Jelena Ostapenko, Australian Open winner Caroline Wozniacki, Wimbledon winner Garbine Muguruza and now Stephens.
Stephens, who won her first major at Flushing Meadows last fall, lost in the first rounds at the Australian Open and in Sydney before reaching the quarterfinals at Acapulco.
Wozniacki outlasted Aliaksandra Sasnovich of Belarus 6-4, 2-6, 6-3 for her 31st career match win at Indian Wells, where she has played 12 straight years. She won in the desert in 2011 and has been runner-up twice.
The highest-seeded player to lose Monday was No. 4 Elina Svitolina of Ukraine, who was beaten 7-5, 6-3 by 27th-seeded Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain. Also losing was No. 12 Julia Goerges of Germany, 6-3, 6-3 to No. 21 Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia.
No. 7 Caroline Garcia of France beat 26th-seeded Daria Gavrilova of Australia 7-5, 6-4; No. 10 Angelique Kerber of Germany defeated No. 24 Elena Vesnina of Russia 7-5, 6-2; and American Danielle Collins continued her run with a 6-4, 6-4 win over fellow wild card Sofya Zhuk of Russia.
"It definitely feels like a big deal because I have never gone this far in a tournament," Collins said.
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Serena Williams says she's missing shots she rarely misses and praises her sister after Venus Williams' 6-3, 6-4 win. (0:42)
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- Since she arrived here, Serena Williams has been telling us to temper our expectations. In postmatch media conferences, she has said she is easing into her comeback, not placing too much pressure on herself to win matches or perform like the Serena of 14 months ago. She asked us to give her time to return to championship form.
We didn't listen. Her actions during matches seemed to speak more loudly than what she was saying after them.
In her first- and second-round wins in the BNP Paribas Open, she played aggressive, gritty tennis, fighting back from down 3-1 in the first set of her second-round match against Kiki Bertens before winning in a tiebreaker. We had short memories for the unforced errors and uninspired serving, and focused instead on the positives. She showed incredible focus and mental toughness and hit powerful returns. She moved better than she had in the exhibition matches she played before returning to WTA play here at Indian Wells.
The sister showdown at Indian Wells more or less turned into a dominant display from Venus Williams, who beat her sister Serena in straight sets. Here's how it all went down.
Serena Williams' comeback was halted by older sister Venus, who won their third-round matchup at the BNP Paribas Open 6-3, 6-4 on Monday night. In other action on the women's side, Sloane Stephens saw her struggles continue.
Roger Federer rolled past No. 25 seed Filip Krajinovic 6-2, 6-1 in pursuit of a record sixth BNP Paribas Open title.
With each game, with each match, Williams looked stronger, fitter, more technically sound than she had previously. Heading into Monday night's matchup with her older sister Venus, we all but expected Serena to win -- against a top-10 opponent who played in two Grand Slam finals last year and is contesting her fourth tournament this season. It was too much to ask.
"For me, it was a good match. It was good to play and try to get in the rhythm and get into the swing again," Serena said after the match. "I'm getting there. It's not exactly where I want to be, but I'll get there eventually. I have a lot to improve on. It's good that I don't have to say that this is the best tennis I have ever played and I lost. My room for improvement is incredible. I just have a long way to go, and I'm looking forward to the journey."
On a grander level, this match held a lot of meaning. That is true any time the Williams sisters face each other, and their history here at Indian Wells only compounded the emotion of the night. But in the story of Serena's return to tennis after a 14-month maternity leave, this match will be but a footnote, the first loss she was dealt in what will undoubtedly be a success story punctuated with future Grand Slam wins.
Because she came into this tournament unseeded, it was inevitable she would play a top player early, and that it would be the first true measure of where her game stands right now. Monday against the No. 8 player in the world, Williams looked more like we expected her to look in her first two matches: Like a player who is not in peak form or ready to win tournaments.
"In a way, it's normal she did not win tonight," her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, told ESPN.com. "If she had won the first tournament, that would have been incredible. But if you know how to use disappointment in a good way, it is great motivation."
During this tournament, Mouratoglou said he and Serena learned a lot about where she is in her comeback and what they need to work on heading into next week's Miami Open.
"The base of her game is there, which is very good news," he said. "But I learned she has to move better. She needs to serve much better than she did. Her body has to be able to recover from matches. The rest of her game needs time and we cannot buy time, so we are going to work as hard as possible to get her back to her highest level with the goal of winning the next Grand Slam."
In the third round in Indian Wells, Venus Williams beats Serena Williams in straight sets.
The day after her first-round match, Mouratoglou said Serena was very sore, which was no surprise considering she hadn't played a match in more than a year. After her second-round win, she had a tougher time recovering and was hurting Monday night. "She was suffering a lot," he said. "I think that hurt her a lot. She was very slow and she was not herself. Venus didn't give her many chances to not be in top shape."
A few times during Monday's match, Williams looked to her player box and motioned toward her coach. "She was asking what she was doing wrong, and I was trying to tell her she was rushing too much," Mouratoglou said. "She was hitting the ball too much in front of her so she couldn't spin the ball. She was rushing with her hands, but she was tired, heavier on her feet and slower than in the other matches, so she couldn't rush with her legs at the same time. Her hands were too early compared to what her legs were doing. I was trying to tell her to calm down and play rallies, but I don't think she could do it tonight."
Both Mouratoglou and Williams gave credit to Venus for playing as well as she has all season and forcing her opponent to rush and make mistakes. This win is Venus' first against her sister since the 2014 Rogers Cup semifinal and, it is the first time she has beaten Serena in straight sets since the 2008 Wimbledon final.
"She put very high pressure on Serena from the start, playing fast and aggressive and with a lot of success," Mouratoglou said. "She played unbelievable."
Williams said she will write down everything she believes she needs to work on heading into Miami, rank them in order of importance and get to work making improvements to her game.
"Each tournament, my goal is just to be better than the last," Williams said. "I definitely don't want to go backward. I want to continue to go forward."
Right now, that is what she considers success.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Ken Flach, who won four Grand Slam titles in men's doubles and two in mixed doubles, has died, according to the ATP World Tour and International Tennis Federation. He was 54.
The ATP World Tour announced Tuesday that Flach died Monday night in California after a brief illness.
In a posting on Facebook, Flach's wife, Christina, wrote that he "passed away after fighting pneumonia."
"Ken was taken far too soon and his sudden passing comes as a real shock to everyone in tennis,'' ATP president Chris Kermode said, adding that Flach "will be remembered as one of the great U.S. doubles players in the history of our sport.''
Flach reached No. 1 in the men's doubles rankings and paired with Robert Seguso to form one of the world's top teams in the 1980s.
They won 28 titles together, including major championships at the US Open in 1985 and Wimbledon in 1987 and 1988. They twice were the runners-up at the US Open.
Flach and Seguso also collected a gold medal for the United States at the 1988 Seoul Olympics.
They played together at Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville and won three Division II national championships, according to the ATP.
Flach finished with a total of 34 men's doubles titles, including winning the 1993 US Open with Rick Leach. Flach and Kathy Jordan won Grand Slam mixed doubles trophies at the French Open and Wimbledon in 1986.
Flach retired as a professional tennis player in 1996 and became a coach, leading Vanderbilt to the NCAA finals in 2003.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Ken Flach, who won four Grand Slam titles in men's doubles and two in mixed doubles, has died, according to the ATP World Tour and International Tennis Federation. He was 54.
The ATP World Tour announced Tuesday that Flach died Monday night in California after a brief illness.
In a posting on Facebook, Flach's wife, Christina, wrote that he "passed away after fighting pneumonia."
"Ken was taken far too soon and his sudden passing comes as a real shock to everyone in tennis,'' ATP president Chris Kermode said, adding that Flach "will be remembered as one of the great U.S. doubles players in the history of our sport.''
Flach reached No. 1 in the men's doubles rankings and paired with Robert Seguso to form one of the world's top teams in the 1980s.
They won 28 titles together, including major championships at the US Open in 1985 and Wimbledon in 1987 and 1988. They twice were the runners-up at the US Open.
Flach and Seguso also collected a gold medal for the United States at the 1988 Seoul Olympics.
They played together at Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville and won three Division II national championships, according to the ATP.
Flach finished with a total of 34 men's doubles titles, including winning the 1993 US Open with Rick Leach. Flach and Kathy Jordan won Grand Slam mixed doubles trophies at the French Open and Wimbledon in 1986.
Flach retired as a professional tennis player in 1996 and became a coach, leading Vanderbilt to the NCAA finals in 2003.
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- Venus Williams defeated Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia 7-6 (8), 6-4 to reach the quarterfinals of the BNP Paribas Open on Tuesday as the oldest woman in the draw.
The 37-year-old American was coming off a straight-set victory over younger sister Serena a night earlier, ending a three-match skid against her sibling.
It only gets easier for Venus Williams. The day after beating sister Serena at Indian Wells, Venus was back on the court facing a very different opponent but with the same winning result.
"It was a quick turnaround from last night when it feels like, 'Hey, this is a final' to 'You're only in the fourth round,'" Williams said on court.
Playing under cloudy skies in 80-degree heat, Williams had her hands full with Sevastova, who used drop shots, top spin, lobs and jerked her 10-years-older opponent side to side.
"There were some points where she just played and it was too good," Williams said. "I thought I was in control of the point and winning the point, and she turned it around. It's just real talent."
After early losses in her first two tournaments of the year, Williams hasn't dropped a set at Indian Wells, where she has yet to reach the final in six previous appearances.
Awaiting Williams in the quarterfinals is 27th-seeded Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain, who beat American wild card Danielle Collins 6-2, 6-4.
Simona Halep of Romania is on track to retain her No. 1 world ranking after defeating Wang Qiang of China 7-5, 6-1 in the fourth round.
Halep is the only former Indian Wells winner left in the women's draw after No. 20 Daria Kasatkina upset No. 2 Caroline Wozniacki 6-4, 7-5. The Dane blew a 3-0 lead in the first set and was on the run most of the match before losing for the second time this year to the 20-year-old Russian.
"She outsmarted me," Wozniacki said.
By reaching the quarterfinals, Kasatkina is projected to surpass her career-best ranking of 17th. She has beaten all four current Grand Slam titleholders in the past year, including U.S. Open winner Sloane Stephens in straight sets this week.
"I'm playing best matches against the best players," Kasatkina said. "But as I say, if you want to be on the top, you have to beat the top players. So quite simple rule."
Halep improved to 17-1 this year and needs only to reach the final to stay at the top.
Next up for Halep is Petra Martic of Croatia, who beat Marketa Vondrousova of the Czech Republic 6-3, 7-6 (4).
American teenager Amanda Anisimova's run of success ended in a 6-1, 7-6 (2) loss to No. 5 seed Karolina Pliskova of the Czech Republic.
Anisimova, a 16-year-old wild card, won her first three WTA Tour matches at Indian Wells, beating Pauline Parmentier, No. 23 seed Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova and two-time Wimbledon winner Petra Kvitova without dropping a set.
"She's 16, so she's not scared," Pliskova said of Anisimova. "You can see she's hitting the ball without thinking. But everybody is playing like this when they are 16. I think this will change a little bit in the future, but for sure the game is good and not really any weakness. I think everything is pretty solid."
Pliskova faces a quarterfinal against Japan's Naomi Osaka, who beat Maria Sakkari of Greece 6-1, 5-7, 6-1.
Halep attended Venus Williams' straight-set victory over 36-year-old sister and new mother Serena on Monday night.
"I love the way that they are motivated and they are still playing at this age, Serena with the kid," Halep said. "It's a great thing what they do for sport, and it's great that tennis has them. I have many things to learn from them. That's why I'm trying just to go in to watch every time I can."
On the men's side, Gael Monfils retired in the second set with a back injury while trailing fellow Frenchman Pierre-Hugues Herbert 6-2, 3-1.
Monfils used an eight-minute injury timeout in the second set to get his back worked on before returning to the court and getting broken in fourth game. He then walked to the net and ended the match.
Herbert moved on to a fourth-round matchup with Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany, who upset No. 2 seed Marin Cilic of Croatia 6-4, 6-4.
Cilic won 19 of 23 points on his first serve but failed to convert four break points against 31st-seeded Kohlschreiber, who snapped a 12-match skid against top-10 opponents.
Herbert remains in contention for the $1 million bonus offered to a player who sweeps the singles and doubles titles.
No. 6 Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina defeated No. 29 David Ferrer of Spain 6-4, 7-6 (3) for the fifth straight time.
With Cilic, Ferrer, Novak Djokovic, Monfils and John Isner all eliminated from his quarter of the draw, things are looking wide open for del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion. Top-ranked Roger Federer of Switzerland and del Potro are the highest seeds remaining.
"I'm not thinking about that. I just want to keep winning," del Potro said. "Still far away from the final, but of course, any chance to play with Roger would be great."
Del Potro's countryman, Leonardo Mayer, beat Japanese qualifier Taro Daniel 6-4, 6-1. Mayer next plays del Potro.
No. 18 Sam Querrey rallied past Indian qualifier Yuki Bhambri 6-7 (7), 6-4, 6-4 and will play No. 28 Feliciano Lopez of Spain. Lopez spoiled a potential all-American quarterfinal by beating No. 8 Jack Sock 7-6 (8), 4-6, 6-4.
No. 32 Milos Raonic of Canada defeated Joao Sousa of Portugal 7-5, 4-6, 6-2 and will meet Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus, who beat lucky loser Dudi Sela of Israel 7-6 (7), 6-4.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- Venus Williams defeated Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia 7-6 (8), 6-4 to reach the quarterfinals of the BNP Paribas Open on Tuesday as the oldest woman in the draw.
The 37-year-old American was coming off a straight-set victory over younger sister Serena a night earlier, ending a three-match skid against her sibling.
"It was a quick turnaround from last night when it feels like, 'Hey, this is a final' to 'You're only in the fourth round,'" Williams said on court.
Playing under cloudy skies in 80-degree heat, Williams had her hands full with Sevastova, who used drop shots, top spin, lobs and jerked her 10-years-older opponent side to side.
"There were some points where she just played and it was too good," Williams said. "I thought I was in control of the point and winning the point, and she turned it around. It's just real talent."
After early losses in her first two tournaments of the year, Williams hasn't dropped a set at Indian Wells, where she has yet to reach the final in six previous appearances.
Awaiting Williams in the quarterfinals is 27th-seeded Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain, who beat American wild card Danielle Collins 6-2, 6-4.
Simona Halep of Romania is on track to retain her No. 1 world ranking after defeating Wang Qiang of China 7-5, 6-1 in the fourth round.
Halep is the only former Indian Wells winner left in the women's draw after No. 20 Daria Kasatkina upset No. 2 Caroline Wozniacki 6-4, 7-5. The Dane blew a 3-0 lead in the first set and was on the run most of the match before losing for the second time this year to the 20-year-old Russian.
"She outsmarted me," Wozniacki said.
By reaching the quarterfinals, Kasatkina is projected to surpass her career-best ranking of 17th. She has beaten all four current Grand Slam titleholders in the past year, including U.S. Open winner Sloane Stephens in straight sets this week.
"I'm playing best matches against the best players," Kasatkina said. "But as I say, if you want to be on the top, you have to beat the top players. So quite simple rule."
Halep improved to 17-1 this year and needs only to reach the final to stay at the top.
Next up for Halep is Petra Martic of Croatia, who beat Marketa Vondrousova of the Czech Republic 6-3, 7-6 (4).
American teenager Amanda Anisimova's run of success ended in a 6-1, 7-6 (2) loss to No. 5 seed Karolina Pliskova of the Czech Republic.
Anisimova, a 16-year-old wild card, won her first three WTA Tour matches at Indian Wells, beating Pauline Parmentier, No. 23 seed Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova and two-time Wimbledon winner Petra Kvitova without dropping a set.
"She's 16, so she's not scared," Pliskova said of Anisimova. "You can see she's hitting the ball without thinking. But everybody is playing like this when they are 16. I think this will change a little bit in the future, but for sure the game is good and not really any weakness. I think everything is pretty solid."
Pliskova faces a quarterfinal against Japan's Naomi Osaka, who beat Maria Sakkari of Greece 6-1, 5-7, 6-1.
Halep attended Venus Williams' straight-set victory over 36-year-old sister and new mother Serena on Monday night.
"I love the way that they are motivated and they are still playing at this age, Serena with the kid," Halep said. "It's a great thing what they do for sport, and it's great that tennis has them. I have many things to learn from them. That's why I'm trying just to go in to watch every time I can."
On the men's side, Gael Monfils retired in the second set with a back injury while trailing fellow Frenchman Pierre-Hugues Herbert 6-2, 3-1.
Monfils used an eight-minute injury timeout in the second set to get his back worked on before returning to the court and getting broken in fourth game. He then walked to the net and ended the match.
Herbert moved on to a fourth-round matchup with Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany, who upset No. 2 seed Marin Cilic of Croatia 6-4, 6-4.
Cilic won 19 of 23 points on his first serve but failed to convert four break points against 31st-seeded Kohlschreiber, who snapped a 12-match skid against top-10 opponents.
Herbert remains in contention for the $1 million bonus offered to a player who sweeps the singles and doubles titles.
No. 6 Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina defeated No. 29 David Ferrer of Spain 6-4, 7-6 (3) for the fifth straight time.
With Cilic, Ferrer, Novak Djokovic, Monfils and John Isner all eliminated from his quarter of the draw, things are looking wide open for del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion. Top-ranked Roger Federer of Switzerland and del Potro are the highest seeds remaining.
"I'm not thinking about that. I just want to keep winning," del Potro said. "Still far away from the final, but of course, any chance to play with Roger would be great."
Del Potro's countryman, Leonardo Mayer, beat Japanese qualifier Taro Daniel 6-4, 6-1. Mayer next plays del Potro.
No. 18 Sam Querrey rallied past Indian qualifier Yuki Bhambri 6-7 (7), 6-4, 6-4 and will play No. 28 Feliciano Lopez of Spain. Lopez spoiled a potential all-American quarterfinal by beating No. 8 Jack Sock 7-6 (8), 4-6, 6-4.
No. 32 Milos Raonic of Canada defeated Joao Sousa of Portugal 7-5, 4-6, 6-2 and will meet Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus, who beat lucky loser Dudi Sela of Israel 7-6 (7), 6-4.
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -- Venus Williams defeated Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia 7-6 (8), 6-4 to reach the quarterfinals of the BNP Paribas Open on Tuesday as the oldest woman in the draw.
The 37-year-old American was coming off a straight-set victory over younger sister Serena a night earlier, ending a three-match skid against her sibling.
It only gets easier for Venus Williams. The day after beating sister Serena at Indian Wells, Venus was back on the court facing a very different opponent but with the same winning result.
"It was a quick turnaround from last night when it feels like, 'Hey, this is a final' to 'You're only in the fourth round,'" Williams said on court.
Playing under cloudy skies in 80-degree heat, Williams had her hands full with Sevastova, who used drop shots, top spin, lobs and jerked her 10-years-older opponent side to side.
"There were some points where she just played and it was too good," Williams said. "I thought I was in control of the point and winning the point, and she turned it around. It's just real talent."
After early losses in her first two tournaments of the year, Williams hasn't dropped a set at Indian Wells, where she has yet to reach the final in six previous appearances.
Awaiting Williams in the quarterfinals is 27th-seeded Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain, who beat American wild card Danielle Collins 6-2, 6-4.
Simona Halep of Romania is on track to retain her No. 1 world ranking after defeating Wang Qiang of China 7-5, 6-1 in the fourth round.
Halep is the only former Indian Wells winner left in the women's draw after No. 20 Daria Kasatkina upset No. 2 Caroline Wozniacki 6-4, 7-5. The Dane blew a 3-0 lead in the first set and was on the run most of the match before losing for the second time this year to the 20-year-old Russian.
"She outsmarted me," Wozniacki said.
By reaching the quarterfinals, Kasatkina is projected to surpass her career-best ranking of 17th. She has beaten all four current Grand Slam titleholders in the past year, including U.S. Open winner Sloane Stephens in straight sets this week.
"I'm playing best matches against the best players," Kasatkina said. "But as I say, if you want to be on the top, you have to beat the top players. So quite simple rule."
Halep improved to 17-1 this year and needs only to reach the final to stay at the top.
Next up for Halep is Petra Martic of Croatia, who beat Marketa Vondrousova of the Czech Republic 6-3, 7-6 (4).
American teenager Amanda Anisimova's run of success ended in a 6-1, 7-6 (2) loss to No. 5 seed Karolina Pliskova of the Czech Republic.
Anisimova, a 16-year-old wild card, won her first three WTA Tour matches at Indian Wells, beating Pauline Parmentier, No. 23 seed Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova and two-time Wimbledon winner Petra Kvitova without dropping a set.
"She's 16, so she's not scared," Pliskova said of Anisimova. "You can see she's hitting the ball without thinking. But everybody is playing like this when they are 16. I think this will change a little bit in the future, but for sure the game is good and not really any weakness. I think everything is pretty solid."
Pliskova faces a quarterfinal against Japan's Naomi Osaka, who beat Maria Sakkari of Greece 6-1, 5-7, 6-1.
Halep attended Venus Williams' straight-set victory over 36-year-old sister and new mother Serena on Monday night.
"I love the way that they are motivated and they are still playing at this age, Serena with the kid," Halep said. "It's a great thing what they do for sport, and it's great that tennis has them. I have many things to learn from them. That's why I'm trying just to go in to watch every time I can."
On the men's side, Gael Monfils retired in the second set with a back injury while trailing fellow Frenchman Pierre-Hugues Herbert 6-2, 3-1.
Monfils used an eight-minute injury timeout in the second set to get his back worked on before returning to the court and getting broken in fourth game. He then walked to the net and ended the match.
Herbert moved on to a fourth-round matchup with Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany, who upset No. 2 seed Marin Cilic of Croatia 6-4, 6-4.
Cilic won 19 of 23 points on his first serve but failed to convert four break points against 31st-seeded Kohlschreiber, who snapped a 12-match skid against top-10 opponents.
Herbert remains in contention for the $1 million bonus offered to a player who sweeps the singles and doubles titles.
No. 6 Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina defeated No. 29 David Ferrer of Spain 6-4, 7-6 (3) for the fifth straight time.
With Cilic, Ferrer, Novak Djokovic, Monfils and John Isner all eliminated from his quarter of the draw, things are looking wide open for del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion. Top-ranked Roger Federer of Switzerland and del Potro are the highest seeds remaining.
"I'm not thinking about that. I just want to keep winning," del Potro said. "Still far away from the final, but of course, any chance to play with Roger would be great."
Del Potro's countryman, Leonardo Mayer, beat Japanese qualifier Taro Daniel 6-4, 6-1. Mayer next plays del Potro.
No. 18 Sam Querrey rallied past Indian qualifier Yuki Bhambri 6-7 (7), 6-4, 6-4 and will play No. 28 Feliciano Lopez of Spain. Lopez spoiled a potential all-American quarterfinal by beating No. 8 Jack Sock 7-6 (8), 4-6, 6-4.
No. 32 Milos Raonic of Canada defeated Joao Sousa of Portugal 7-5, 4-6, 6-2 and will meet Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus, who beat lucky loser Dudi Sela of Israel 7-6 (7), 6-4.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
CHICAGO -- The Laver Cup was a hit last year, and now Roger Federer is hoping it proves popular on U.S. soil.
Roger Federer made this discovery in the 2004 U.S. Open final against Lleyton Hewitt, he discloses to writer Michael Steinberger. This is the never-before-told oral history of that moment.
The 20-time Grand Slam champion made his first visit to Chicago on Monday to promote the second Laver Cup, a team competition that debuted last year in Prague.
Federer, shaking off a three-set loss to Juan Martin del Potro on Sunday in the final at Indian Wells that ended his 17-match winning streak, was joined by tennis legends Rod Laver and John McEnroe, along with young Australian star Nick Kyrgios.
Federer's management team was instrumental in launching the Laver Cup, which pits Team Europe against Team World. After its third year, he said he'll entertain possible changes to the format.
"Down the road I'm totally open to anything," Federer said. "I've heard already from women players. They would love to do it as well."
Four of the six players on each team are chosen on rankings after Wimbledon. The other two are captain's picks, and captain McEnroe didn't wait Monday -- he announced the talented Kyrgios was already on the World Team.
Kyrgios lost a tight final singles match to Federer in Prague last season, which clinched the cup for Team Europe.
What impact the Laver Cup has on the future of Davis Cup, the long-standing competition between nations, is still debatable. But there is a proposal from the International Tennis Federation to play the top level of Davis Cup in a single-week, 18-nation format. It must be approved by a vote of the membership.
"It just takes so much out of the players to be available four weekends during the year every single year," Federer said. "I played a lot of Davis Cup when I was younger and happy I did. I was happy it existed, but eventually it was just too much."
Federer added: "I do believe that the Laver Cup has sparked some change, some inspiration to other cups that maybe we'll see in tennis. But that's a good thing. We'll take that as a sign of flattery."
McEnroe, once a staple for the U.S. Davis Cup team, said changes in that competition are overdue and certainly the success of the Laver Cup has not gone unnoticed.
"For me, I say, 'When's the last time anyone's asked me about how many Davis Cup teams I was part of winning?'" McEnroe said.
"In the last 10 years, how many people have asked me that? You know how many people? None. Which is sad, 'cause I played a lot of Davis Cup and I loved it."
The 2018 Laver Cup will be played Sept. 21-23 at United Center before returning to Europe the following year.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS -- Total prize money for the French Open will go up by around 8 percent this year, with the men's and women's champions winning $2.7 million each.
Roland Garros director Guy Forget says the total prize money will reach $48 million.
This year's tournament in Paris is scheduled for May 27-June 10.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. -- Jack Sock, Sam Querrey, John Isner, Ryan Harrison and Steve Johnson have been picked for the U.S. Davis Cup team that will face Belgium in the quarterfinals next month in Nashville, Tennessee.
The U.S. Tennis Association announced captain Jim Courier's roster Wednesday. Belgium's team hasn't been made public yet.
Sock is the highest-ranked American man at No. 11 this week, with Querrey 14th and Isner 17th.
The matches will be played on a hard court at Belmont University from April 6-8.
The winner will face Croatia or Kazakhstan in the semifinals Sept. 14-16. The U.S. hasn't been to the Davis Cup's final four since 2012.
The United States holds a 4-0 record against Belgium in the Davis Cup, but the countries last played each other in 2005.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -- Kids grow up so fast. Some of them had notable spurts during the 13 months Serena Williams was out on pregnancy and maternity leave. Among them is Naomi Osaka, who has never known a tennis landscape without the towering figure of the 23-time Grand Slam champion.
Mere hours after celebrating her first WTA title in Indian Wells, the 20-year-old Osaka was in a car en route to the airport when her coach, Sascha Bajin, told her she'd drawn Williams in the first round of the Miami Open. He expected a little shock and awe. Instead, she yelped with glee and called her mother.
Serena Williams fell in straight sets to Naomi Osaka in the first round of the Miami Open.
Naomi Osaka needed just 70 minutes to dispatch Daria Kasatkina 6-3, 6-2 on Sunday to win the BNP Paribas Open in a matchup of 20-year-old rising stars.
It's difficult to imagine a time when Serena Williams didn't rule fans' hearts and minds, but as ESPN's Howard Bryant reflects, the respect was hard-won.
"It's weird if you grow up watching someone and wanting to be exactly like them and then you have the chance to play them," Osaka said in her deliberate yet delightfully spontaneous cadence after the match. "It's sort of this respect thing, but you also want to win really bad. I don't really know how to describe it. I just wanted her to, in the end, like after the match, just know who I am and stuff."
Osaka, the daughter of Haitian and Japanese parents who represents Japan and resides in Florida, probably won't have to show her ID to Williams the next time they face off. She displayed memorable poise in a situation that shaped up to be somewhat daunting, on and off paper, taking 77 minutes to defeat Williams 6-3, 6-2.
Osaka said she had never been so nervous about playing "a specific person," but that angst didn't show. On the court afterward, Osaka said she had simply wanted to impress Williams.
The senior player told her opponent "good job" at the net, but any other thoughts from Williams on her young opponent remained unexpressed. Williams packed quickly after swatting a forehand long on match point, the last of her 28 unforced errors and a moment she punctuated with a chagrined smile. She strode out of the stadium and directly into a waiting car, skipping the WTA-mandated news conference.
She might be interested to hear that Osaka said she tried to avert her gaze from the other side of the court "because I might freak myself out a little bit" or tickled at the thought that Osaka wanted to make her yell "Come on!" just to be certain she was testing her.
Williams might take some satisfaction in the knowledge that when Osaka served up a couple of aces to close out her only tough game of the second set, she was thinking, "What would Serena do?"
Or maybe not.
"You know how, like, sometimes she aces people in really bad positions?" Osaka said postmatch. "So I was trying to do that. It worked out."
The unusually tough early draw came about as a result of WTA rules, under which athletes returning from childbirth can use a "protected" ranking or a wild card to enter tournaments but get no breaks on seeding. Wednesday's match was only Williams' fourth on the WTA Tour after her long break, and she clearly has some miles to go to peak fitness, but she is still who she is and not to be taken lightly.
Bajin is perhaps uniquely qualified to prepare a player to face that monumental figure, having been Williams' hitting partner for many years. He gave Osaka a day off Monday, then put her through two practice sessions the next day and administered a dose of wisdom.
"I shared a few stories about Serena to make her a little bit more human in her eyes -- nothing bad but just funny stories I've lived with her," Bajin told me Tuesday. "I targeted some things I want [Osaka] to do without even telling her, 'Hey, this is something that is gonna work against Serena.' She's not afraid. She's very looking forward to that challenge.
"I'm going to tell Naomi to treat the ball as her opponent, not Serena. Ultimately, it's going to come down to who serves better and who can keep their composure together."
Omg pic.twitter.com/D2K3H4ESAv
That proved prophetic, as Osaka swatted seven aces to Williams' three, did not lose serve, cracked one 119 mph rocket and -- for a portion of one afternoon, anyway -- made the psychic distance between the two players evaporate.
It might not ever feel that way again. Every big match Osaka wins right now is an upset, and each peak experience is fresh and new: making trophy acceptance speeches, sharing a private jet with the woman she just beat, shaking hands with an icon she is accustomed to seeing on the flat expanse of a television screen rather than in three dimensions.
Precisely how did she want to impress Williams?
"Just not losing 6-0, 6-0," Osaka said. "Just fighting for every point."
Her expectations are sure to change as she comes of age.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
This story on No. 5 athlete Roger Federer appears in the 20th anniversary issue of ESPN The Magazine. Subscribe today!
Ask any Roger Federer obsessive to name his five greatest matches and chances are the 2004 U.S. Open final won't be on the list. It took place a long time ago and was soon overshadowed by his epic battles against Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic. But the '04 Open final was arguably Federer's most dominant performance ever, and also the moment the world realized that his talent was possibly at a level beyond anything the sport had seen.
Although Federer, then 23, had already won three majors, this was his first U.S. Open title match, and it was against the most accomplished opponent he had yet faced in a slam final: Lleyton Hewitt, the two-time grand slam champ and former world No. 1 who had beaten Federer in seven of their first 10 meetings. Everyone expected a war; instead, the match turned out to be a historic rout, with Federer drubbing Hewitt 6-0, 7-6, 6-0. That the Aussie came into the final riding a 16-match winning streak and having not dropped a set at the Open made the beatdown he suffered that Sunday afternoon all the more incredible. Hewitt fought like hell -- he always fought like hell -- but he had no chance. He was simply overwhelmed by Federer's pace, touch and ability to conjure angles that seemed outside the realm of geometric possibility. Earlier in the tournament, John McEnroe, working as a commentator for CBS, had said of Federer, "You're witnessing someone who may go down in history as the greatest player who ever lived." That seemed like a hasty judgment at the time. After the Hewitt match, it didn't. This is the never-before-told oral history of that moment.
Roger Federer:  The 2004 U.S. Open final was a major breakthrough for me. I had won Wimbledon and the Australian, and it was about confirming my status at the top of tennis. But playing Lleyton was tough. Every time I played him, I was ready for long rallies, a very physical match, a mental challenge.
Mary Carillo, broadcaster, booth announcer for the match: You anticipate a certain match. You think it's going to be about the tenacious Lleyton, there's going to be a lot of long rallies, he's going to leg out a lot of these shots that most people can't get back ...
In celebration of ESPN The Magazine's 20th anniversary, Peter Keating crunched the numbers to find the most dominant athletes of our time.
More athletes: Tiger Woods, Roger Federer, Serena Williams
See the full list
The biggest questions we know you have about our list
Roger Rasheed, Hewitt's coach, 2003-07: Lleyton was confident going in. We tried to bring Roger in on our own terms. He came in to a couple of short balls during the first set -- they were low because Lleyton chipped them -- and he hit this low-ball topspin off the service line that went just over the net and bounced twice before the service line. I was sitting with John Fitzgerald, who was [Australia's] Davis Cup captain at the time. Fitzy said to me, "That was a mishit." I said, "No, no, that was done intentionally."
Federer blanks Hewitt, a two-time major champ, in the first set, taking it 6-0 in just 18 minutes.
Federer: The way I was playing and serving -- I felt I could really maintain this level. I was feeling it. But there was a difficult situation in the second set. I was up a set and a break, 6-0, 3-1, and all of a sudden he came back. I knew Lleyton could go through spells where he would not miss a ball for an hour. He would get you in these rallies time and again. Then maybe your legs go, your mind starts wandering and it becomes more complicated. I had to win the second set and not go into the third set on even terms.
Rasheed: There was one moment late in that second set: Lleyton had a second-serve return, Roger went to his backhand and Lleyton dumped it. I thought we were going to get to 15-40, and he dumped it. That was his chance. My god, I wish he'd gotten that ball back.
Carillo: Hewitt played the best tennis he could possibly play, and he still lost that set. Now where do you go?
After winning the second set 7-6, Federer breaks Hewitt to start the third set, then breaks him again to go up 3-0.
Rasheed: Lleyton is still busting his ass, but once Roger grabs you ... Roger was just [playing] so free. He's got the ability to get access to every single part of the court. There are not many players in our sport who have ever had that ability. The way he can spin the ball, his creativity with his hands and his shot selection ...
Federer: At this point, I'm fairly confident there's no coming back for him. Once you do the double break, you're like, "If I mess this up, then I'm a majorly bad player."
Carillo: You want it to be competitive, and it's a terrible thing when it is not. At a certain point, you're only talking about one side of the net, and that happens a lot with Roger. He was luminous. You just say, "This guy on every level is lapping his very feisty opponent."
Federer: One-sided matches are a bit of a bummer for people. But as a player, they are the ones you are most excited about because you were able not only to hold your serve but also to break almost at will. You broke the guy six or seven times, and the guy is a top-five player in the world. Australian Open last year: five sets; Australian Open this year: five sets. Yes, they are epic and they stay in your heart because they are so emotional, but the demolition ones stay with you.
Carillo: Love, six, love -- Roger threw him down a flight of stairs. You knew what he could do, but you didn't know he could do that. I thought that Sampras' 14 [majors, a record] was going to stand there for a while. I think Pete thought the same thing. And all of a sudden [Federer] comes galloping along ...
Federer:  I knew by winning that one -- winning three majors in the same year -- that's no joke. I felt like this career could really become special at this point. Beating Agassi, beating Lleyton, all these were major milestones in getting to believe that I could do this. I came to realize I was able to do stuff that I wasn't sure I was able to do. Maybe backhand passing shots. Maybe my transition game. My clutch serving. This was stuff I still had to prove to myself, and that's when I was really able to tell myself, "Big stage, I like it. I can really bring it." For the rest of my career, it made me believe that this is who I am. I like the big stage.
In addition to tennis, Michael Steinberger shares an interest in wine with Federer. His stories pair well with red burgundies.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Roger Federer's loss to Juan Martin del Potro in the final of the BNP Paribas Open last Sunday, in which he squandered three match points, was a reminder that, appearances to the contrary, the world No. 1 is actually mortal. But even though the match ended with a rare loss for Federer (his first of the year) the two-week tournament in Indian Wells, California, mainly served to underscore a key point about the biology defying renaissance that the 36-year-old is enjoying: When it comes to durability, it turns out he is pretty much unique.
While Federer was making a second consecutive run to the Indian Wells final, Novak Djokovic lasted just one round in the California desert, losing his opener to qualifier Taro Daniel 7-6 (7), 4-6, 6-1. If Federer's loss to del Potro was heartbreaking, Djokovic's loss to Daniel was just ugly and baffling. By the end, the 12-time major winner could barely keep the ball between the lines.
The Laver Cup was a hit last year, and now Roger Federer is hoping it proves popular on U.S. soil.
Juan Martin del Potro rallied from three match points down in the third set and beat top-ranked Roger Federer 6-4, 6-7 (8), 7-6 (2) to win the BNP Paribas Open, handing the Swiss superstar his first loss of the year.
A gentle giant? Pfft. Juan Martin del Potro showed he might be the heavyweight champ of the tennis universe with a smash-mouth win against Roger Federer in the final of Indian Wells.
It was Djokovic's first appearance since the Australian Open, which in turn was his first tournament back from an elbow injury that forced him to cut short his 2017 season by five months. Djokovic made it to the fourth round in Melbourne. To state the obvious, Indian Wells was not a step forward. He is now playing the Miami Open, where he will face either Mischa Zverev or Benoit Paire.
Perhaps Florida is where he will finally recapture his form, but based on what we've seen so far, time off has not done for Djokovic what it did for Federer.
Federer, as you no doubt recall, was forced to sit out the second half of the 2016 season on account of a knee injury. The hiatus gave him time to heal and rest, and also to retool his backhand. The time off paid instant dividends when he returned to action and promptly won the 2017 Australian, his first major in five years.
His opponent in the final in Melbourne was his longtime rival and Grand Slam tormentor Rafael Nadal, who was also returning from a prolonged break; he had cut short his 2016 season because of a wrist injury.
The fact that the two most rested players in the men's draw reached the final in Melbourne did not go unnoticed in the locker room. It suddenly dawned on everyone that time off, whether by choice or out of necessity, could be a really good thing, allowing the body to recover and possibly reviving a flagging career or taking a great one to even greater heights.
Confirmation of this seemed to come when Federer, after winning the Australian, swept Indian Wells and Miami and then divvied up the year's remaining majors with Nadal, the Spaniard claiming a record 10th French Open and his third US Open. Federer captured a record eighth Wimbledon crown.
While Federer and Nadal were dominating once more, their biggest rivals decided to follow the examples they had set. Djokovic, Andy Murray, Stan Wawrinka and Kei Nishikori all sat out the US Open and missed the entire fall season. All had medical reasons for doing so. Djokovic had the elbow problem, Murray was dealing with a hip injury, Wawrinka needed knee surgery and Nishikori had a torn tendon in his wrist.
All were also at the age when tennis bodies begin to give out. Murray, Djokovic and Wawrinka are all over 30, and Nishikori is in his late 20s. While they were involuntarily sidelined, they no doubt figured that what worked so well for Federer and Nadal would work for them, too.
Not so. Murray ended up having surgery and won't be back until late spring at the earliest. Wawrinka, after a brief return, is sidelined again because of his knee. Nishikori skipped the Australian to give his wrist more time to strengthen and sat out Indian Wells. So did Nadal, who after his spectacular 2017 is hobbled once again by an injury, this time to his leg, a continuation of the boom-and-bust cycle that has characterized his career.
And then there is Djokovic. It is certainly possible that he will win more majors and get back to No. 1. Despite Djokovic's baffling performance in Indian Wells, Federer believes he will eventually be back atop the sport. "Look, still such early stages for Novak coming back," Federer told reporters. "He's only going to get better from here."
But it's worth recalling that Djokovic went into a slump long before his elbow sidelined him. He won the French in 2016, and then lost his game somewhere between Paris and London and has been struggling to find it ever since. And while all sorts of explanations have been offered for his downward spiral, the most obvious one -- age -- has been ignored or discounted. With players maturing later and sticking around longer, it has become an article of faith that the game's aging curve has changed, and that 30 is the new 25 or 23 or 20.
The unprecedented success Federer is enjoying in his mid-30s has reinforced this idea. But tennis is tough on the body; the pro game has never been more physically demanding, and it is entirely possible that the years and all those hard yards are catching up with Fed's top rivals.
What seems undeniable at this point is that Federer is uniquely durable and that he benefitted from time off more than anyone else because he was more durable to begin with. Whether it is his natural elasticity (such loose limbs), his balletic efficiency, his training methods, his judicious scheduling or (more likely) some combination of all these things, Federer is sui generis.
In winning multiple majors after the age of 35 and reclaiming the No. 1 ranking, he has not redefined what's possible for tennis players; he has only demonstrated what's possible for Roger Federer, which -- as with almost all things Federer -- is on a different plane from everyone else.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -- Roger Federer faced two opponents across the net Saturday. One was a man ranked dozens of slots below him with little to lose. The other? The rejuvenated self who had raised expectations over the past year-plus as he crossed the midway point of his 30s and regained the No. 1 ranking.
Federer, who did nothing but win in the opening weeks of 2018, has now lost consecutive matches -- the first time that has happened to him since the 2014 season -- in decisive third-set tiebreakers. Falling to Juan Martin del Potro in a tight Indian Wells final was an understandable result. Succumbing to 175th-ranked qualifier Thanasi Kokkinakis at the Miami Open second round defied all prognostications.
And yet, there was Federer, shaking hands and striding out of the stadium at the Crandon Park Tennis Center for the final time under circumstances he couldn't have imagined after Kokkinakis prevailed 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (4). The 21-year-old Australian found his bearings in the second set when he broke Federer to go up 3-1 and began dictating points with his huge forehand.
Thanasi Kokkinakis, ranked No. 175 in the world, stunned Roger Federer on Saturday at the Miami Open, becoming the lowest-ranked man to beat a No. 1 player since 2003. When the new rankings are released April 2, Rafael Nadal will be the new No. 1.
Caroline Wozniacki says Miami Open fans made threatening comments to her family, including her parents, and cursed at her fiancé's niece and nephew during her loss in the second round Friday.
Top-ranked Simona Halep lost her third-round match Saturday at the Miami Open to Agnieszka Radwanska 3-6, 6-2, 6-3. Radwanska, who won the tournament in 2012, is ranked 32nd and improved to 6-5 against Halep.
Federer held his serve easily in the third set and extended Kokkinakis in most of his service games but couldn't capitalize in key moments.
"I feel like every time I had chances, something bad happened for me, wrong decision-making by me, good decision-making by him," Federer said. "Who knows what happened. It just felt like I could be paying the price for opportunities missed.
"Don't know why I could never get to any level that I was happy with today. Sometimes you have these matches. Sometimes you find a way through. I just couldn't get it done today."
Federer then broke more news that wasn't nearly as much of an upset, confirming that he will take a pass on the clay-court season -- including Roland Garros -- as he did last year, to rest and train for Wimbledon and the hard courts.
This venue, which is hosting the Miami Open for the last time before it relocates to Hard Rock Stadium, has been a touchstone for the Swiss megastar over a 20-year stretch. Federer won his last match as a junior here at the prestigious Orange Bowl event in 1998 and captured the 2005 and 2006 ATP titles on Key Biscayne in his early era of dominance. Last year he won here again.
His departure removes the leading light from a tournament already sapped of star power. Serena Williams and Novak Djokovic lost their opening matches earlier in the week. Poland's 30th ranked Agnieszka Radwanska toppled women's No. 1 Simona Halep of Romania on stadium court in the match preceding Federer's, 3-6, 6-2, 6-3.
Kokkinakis' fellow Australian Nick Kyrgios knows him well and has watched him come back from a series of injuries that made him consider quitting the game a year ago.
"Today is the day he remembered why he plays tennis and why he worked so hard in rehab," the 20th-ranked Kyrgios said late Saturday night after his own second round win.
"I know Thanasi can win those types of matches. He plays big. It's hard to play against him because he doesn't give you much rhythm. I'm surprised, but then again I'm not surprised."
Kokkinakis, who will turn 22 next month, said, "I gave myself a legitimate shot" to be a giant-killer. Although the two men had never played an official match, they were not unacquainted. Federer had invited Kokkinakis to Dubai to train with him on a couple occasions.
"Maybe Dubai helped a little bit to know what he likes to do," said Kokkinakis, who added that he was "all ears" when Federer offered advice.
"In practice, I feel really good with a lot of the players. Again, there's obviously that difficulty trying to bring that to a match court. I know if I bring that level, I can beat a lot of good players. That's what I tried to do.
"I mean, everyone is human. He just plays tennis a lot better than a lot of people."
Well enough, of course, to have climbed back to No. 1 just a month ago. Rafael Nadal will overtake him next week. Federer said the demotion was appropriate.
"I deserve it after this match," he said. "That's how I feel. Just so bad."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -- Danielle Collins' favorite player, for as long as she can remember, has been Venus Williams.
Clearly, she wasn't star-struck when facing her idol.
Collins got the biggest win of her pro career Wednesday night, shocking the eighth-seeded Williams 6-2, 6-3 in the Miami Open quarterfinals. Collins needed to survive two qualifying matches before making the main draw at Key Biscayne, and will now meet sixth-seeded Jelena Ostapenko in Thursday's semifinals.
"The first time I saw Venus in the locker room, I nearly cried," Collins said. "I mean, I've idolized her my whole life. She's been my favorite player for forever. This is such a special moment, I'm just trying to wrap my head around it."
Danielle Collins isn't like most of her fellow tennis peers, which is probably why she is starting to win so many matches.
American John Isner easily advanced to the Miami Open semifinals on Wednesday and will next face Juan Martin del Potro, a winner in the evening session.
Yes, we've trumpeted the next generation of tennis stars before, and we're doing it again. But this time we mean it.
Collins topped US Open finalist Madison Keys earlier this month at Indian Wells and made a much bigger statement with this win. She threw both fists into the air when Williams couldn't handle a serve on Collins' second match point, and even the three-time champion at Key Biscayne gave her a big smile when they shook hands at the net.
"I'm just starting to finally put all of the pieces together," said Collins, the 2014 and 2016 NCAA champion at Virginia.
Collins, No. 93 in the world for a few more days, will more than double her career earnings when the money from Miami arrives. She came to Key Biscayne with $305,385 in career earnings, which she'll add at least $327,965 to now that she's in the semifinals. And she's going to soar in the world rankings, to no lower than 67th.
No qualifier has ever gone this deep at Key Biscayne, though Collins looked perfectly comfortable on the stage. She rarely faced trouble, offered confident fist pumps for much of the night and set the tone by breaking Williams -- one of her idols, someone who's been playing pro matches for about as long as the 24-year-old Collins has been alive -- with her opening chance in each set.
And now Collins, who took the more-unusual path through college to pro life, still has a shot at becoming perhaps Miami's most surprising champion.
"You don't have to do it the traditional way," Williams said.
Ostapenko got her spot in the semifinals by ousting fourth-seeded Elina Svitolina 7-6 (3), 7-6 (5) and now will get the upstart Collins with a berth in Saturday's final at stake. The other women's semifinal is Thursday afternoon, with No. 13 Sloane Stephens set to meet three-time Miami champion Victoria Azarenka.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -- It was a brawl, a ferocious struggle that often seemed less like a tennis match than a street fight between two women who had developed their games on uneven and sometimes broken courts far from the country clubs and tennis academies that produce so many of their peers.
Never mind that one of them, Venus Williams, is a five-time Wimbledon champion and, at age 37, a much-loved icon of the game. Never mind that her opponent, qualifier Danielle Collins, was ranked No. 167 at the start of this year, with just one tour level match (a loss) on her resume. Never mind that Collins had always "idolized" Williams.
Danielle Collins, who survived two qualifying matches to make the main draw at the Miami Open, ousted her idol Venus Williams in a quarterfinal match at Key Biscayne.
Yes, we've trumpeted the next generation of tennis stars before, and we're doing it again. But this time we mean it.
American John Isner easily advanced to the Miami Open semifinals on Wednesday and will next face Juan Martin del Potro, a winner in the evening session.
Williams' mantra lately has been that stats and details don't matter very much. Every opponent is a threat. You just start out even and try to win. On a sultry evening here, when the persistent wind that has plagued so any matches finally expired, Collins certified Williams' opinion. She just went out there and won, crafting a sensational 6-2, 6-3 upset largely because she played bold, fearless tennis.
"[Collins] played very well, aggressively," Williams said afterward. "She went for every shot and they landed. There are days when they don't, and that wasn't today."
Unfortunately for Williams, this was a day when her own shots didn't land. While she put more than 70 percent of her trademark, heavy serves into play, she won just 51 percent of those points. Collins, by contrast, served just a tick better than 50 percent but won 66 percent of them.
Collins' determination and composure throughout the match was striking, a testament to a leathery resilience that was partly inspired by the Williams sisters.
"Growing up, watching so many of their matches, I could really relate to them, to their upbringing," Collins said. "I didn't have an easy upbringing. I didn't come from a super wealthy family. I wasn't at the country club every day, playing in camps with the other kids."
Collins' father, Walter, was a commercial fisherman and even today, at age 80, he works as a landscaper, mowing lawns while his daughter mows down seeds at tournaments. Collins was a court rat who spent adolescent days at the public courts near her home in St. Petersburg, Florida. She importuned anyone to hit or play practice matches with her.
"The Williams sisters went through something similar, and that really resonates with me," she said, adding that having to blaze her own trail made her resourceful. "When you're little and have to go up to people and ask, 'Hey, will you hit some balls with me?' it makes you a little adult, it makes you grow up. Even at a young age I was pretty mature."
The experience also endowed Collins with a patience and grit that is evident in her game. It has also given her perspective that she feels is different from that of her peers. "I'm just so grateful every time I go out to play a tennis match, knowing how different it can be."
Those circumstances and experiences also motivated Collins to attend -- and finish -- college, something neither of her parents had done. That turned out well for the University of Virginia. She became a two-time NCAA champ and wasn't even tempted to turn professional after logging the first one.  "It costs over $50,000 to go to UVA," she said. "And I was really happy being on a team, being in the classroom."
Living with a target on her back as a dominant collegiate player helped Collins develop the aplomb she shows on the court. Her current run really began at Indian Wells, where she qualified and upset Madison Keys en route to the fourth round. That run didn't satisfy or cause Collins to take her foot off the gas. It inspired her to surpass that career-best result here and become the first WTA qualifier to make the semifinals at this event.
Collins will play French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko in the semifinals Thursday night. They've met before, but only in a junior tournament. "It was on clay court; a lot of long points, and I won the match. That's all I can remember."
It promises to be an explosive clash, as both women are fearless ball-strikers. Collins will rely once again on a persuasive combination of excellent movement and a willingness to open up the court with heavy groundstrokes. She understands her new status will bring greater pressure to perform, but professes not to be too concerned about that.
"I'm kind of all business," she said. "I try to be in the moment, without looking forward to what's in the future, not thinking about the past."
Perhaps so, but her recent exploits will be a nice bit of past to think about someday.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -- Sir Pizza is a lot like many other pizza joints. It's in a small mall, at the corner of Westwood Drive and Crandon Boulevard, a short drive from Crandon Park. The place has a brick-colored, tile floor and hanging faux Tiffany lamps. The booths have hard seats made of shiny, laminated wood. There's even a Tupperware container with a masking tape band marked "tips."
It doesn't seem like anything special, but there's sentiment. Among all the things Sloane Stephens will miss most about playing at the Miami Open is Sir Pizza. After three decades at this much-loved venue on Key Biscayne, the tournament is moving for 2019 and beyond to a new home on the mainland at Hard Rock Stadium.

"I've been going to [Sir Pizza] since I was 12," Stephens, a native of Plantation, Florida, said earlier this week. "I grew up playing tennis here, like when I was 12 or 13. We played the Orange Bowl here. The USTA used to be here, so we came down here to practice. I'm kind of sad that it's leaving."
US Open champion Sloane Stephens beat Jelena Ostapenko 7-6 (5), 6-1 in Saturday's Miami Open final.
The U.S. Open champion always seems game for a comeback. And when everything is clicking, Sloane Stephens can make it look easy.
But there was no cause for sadness Saturday afternoon, as Stephens delighted the capacity crowd at Crandon Park with an overwhelming performance, crushing No. 5 Jelena Ostapenko 7-6 (5), 6-1.
Stephens brought her career finals record to 6-0 by claiming her first Premier Mandatory title. Overcoming an early case of nerves, she hit 25 winners to Ostapenko's six and made only 21 unforced errors -- fewer than half of Ostapenko's output.
"I'm definitely happy I can be the last person to win here," Stephens said afterward.
The physical, power-punching Ostapenko and crafty Stephens are both reigning Grand Slam champions. Yet just a year ago at this time, both players were treading water with their rankings in the 60s.
That wasn't such a bad thing for 19-year-old Ostapenko. About this time in 2017, she was just coming into her own by winning at Roland Garros. "The French Open gave me a lot of confidence," she said Saturday. "The beginning of this year was not so amazing for me, but I was working hard and I played good matches here."
Stephens, on the other hand, was approaching the midpoint of an 11-month layoff because of a career-threatening foot surgery in April 2017. Perhaps "career-transforming" foot surgery is a better way to put it. Minor setbacks aside, Stephens bagged the two biggest titles of her career in the past seven months. As punishing and scary as her surgery and rehab were at times, they clearly made Stephens a more resilient, mature competitor.
"When I found out I needed surgery, it was like, 'My life is over,'" she said. "The only thing I had was tennis."
But during her long period of recuperation, Stephens worked as a guest commentator at the Tennis Channel, finished school and accomplished other goals her playing career had prevented her from addressing. She said it endowed her with a different perspective: "Just being able to feel good about doing something besides tennis; it just made me feel so good."
Stephens' new attitude made it easier for her to handle the ebbs and flows that come with success. After winning the US Open championship, the pot of gold at the end of a 15-2 summer-record rainbow, she went on a six-match losing streak. She didn't fare much better to start 2018, coming into Miami with a disappointing 3-4 record. What was going on?
Stephens ignored the skeptics.
"I said to myself, 'There are so many great opportunities, you're not going to be able to take the title every week, and that's OK,'" she said. "Basically, people who bounce back the best are the ones most able to secure those opportunities."
The opportunity this week wasn't presented on a silver platter; more like one of those warped, aluminum, pizza dishes. Stephens had to hurdle four Grand Slam champions, three of them former No. 1 players, in successive matches, ending in the final.
Against Ostapenko in the final, Stephens did show jitters that led to a slow, anxious start.
"I was nervous," she said. "My feet stopped moving. I stopped swinging my arms. I just needed to win that first set and start swinging away, to play my game."
The point that won the first set for Stephens provided a neat snapshot of her innate guile. Ostapenko, who likes to powder the ball, smacked a first serve to Stephens' backhand. Instead of driving the return, Stephens looped back a semi-moonball that Ostapenko, in her eagerness, drove into the net. Clever.
"She was moving really well," Ostapenko said of Stephens. "She was changing the pace. She was serving sometimes kick, sometimes going for it. I think she's a great player."
This was a big win, an occasion for a major celebration.
"You're not going to Sir Pizza tonight," a reporter quipped after her news conference.
"Are you kidding?" Stephens said. "I'm going right now."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -- The Miami Open final lasted 2½ hours. It was a grind, in some ways a snapshot of finalist John Isner's career. After all, he was the prime actor in the longest match in tennis history. A specialist in playing tiebreakers, Isner has labored long and hard. But at age 32, he had yet to win a Big One.
All that changed on Easter Sunday in the final match of the last Miami Open to play out in Crandon Park. At times during the final, it seemed the tournament itself was determined to squeeze every last bit of drama from the last singles match it would host. But as shadows lengthened, Isner drilled three consecutive aces to finish off No. 4 Alexander Zverev 6-7 (4), 6-4, 6-4. An era at this venue had ended.
"Maybe you can tell me what if feels like to win here," Zverev said, addressing Isner during the trophy presentation, "because I'll never experience it."
John Isner wins the Miami Open, his first 1000-level win in his 14-year career. Isner is the first American to win the tournament since Andy Roddick in 2010.
From victory lane at the Miami Open to her favorite pizza joint, perhaps for the final time, it was quite a day for Sloane Stephens.
US Open champion Sloane Stephens beat Jelena Ostapenko 7-6 (5), 6-1 in Saturday's Miami Open final.
An early loss of star power combined with the lame-duck status of this event threatened to make this Miami Open a gloomy affair. Instead, it evolved into glossy celebration of American tennis as, outside of Isner, Sloane Stephens won the women's event and Bob and Mike Bryan won doubles.
Isner's wait to hoist a prestigious Masters 1000 singles trophy had been a long one. He appeared in three previous finals but lost each time to a member of tennis' vaunted big four. He was a semifinalist on five other occasions at Masters, including two last year. But his chances appeared to be slipping as 2018 progressed.
Outside of Davis Cup, Isner had just one win this year before Miami. But on the first Wednesday of the event, he had dinner with his coach, David Macpherson (whom Isner shares with the Bryans). "We hashed out what's been holding me back," Isner explained after the final. "And it wasn't more reps on the court, more time in the gym. I'd been doing that all along."
The problem for Isner was strictly mental. He couldn't shake a tendency to get tight and tentative on the court; it was getting worse as time went on. He was holding back his own game, he said, and losing close matches.
"Somehow, we cleared that hurdle over that dinner," Isner said. "From then on, I went into my matches fresh and loose, and we had dinner after dinner to keep hammering home that point, to be loose."
Isner almost forgot his lesson in the first set of the final. He squandered half a dozen break point chances and mangled the tiebreaker, losing four straight points after leading 4-3 with two serves to come. It was dispiriting, partly because he also felt fatigued. But the crowd wouldn't abandon him, and he resolved to keep trying.
"Somewhere along in the second set, I found a second wind and felt much better," Isner said. "To win like that, with a crowd like that, you just can't replicate that."
That sudden resurgence of energy and will wasn't the only interesting takeaway in this final. Isner had mentored Zverev, 20, when the German was just 14 and training at the same Saddlebrook facility near Tampa, Florida.
"It was unique, that someone I'm so much older than, and had practiced with when he was a kid, is now one of the best players in the world," Isner said. "I never imagined I could play him in a match like this. It's crazy for Sasha and I to share the court in the last singles final of the tournament."
Isner remembers Zverev as the "little kid" who constantly trailed around after his older brother, Mischa. But at some point, one of Isner's coaches told him, "Watch out for that kid." Curious, Isner sought out Alexander, invited him to practice. It began a relationship.
"By 15, he was beating me," Isner said. "I was like, 'Gosh, this kid is a big deal.'"
Zverev remains thankful for the attention Isner once paid him. During the trophy presentation, he turned to Isner and said, "Thank you for teaching me the game and practicing with me so much. Even though don't believe it now, you're a big part of what I do on the court now."
Zverev already had two of the Masters titles coming into Miami. But he denied that sentiment or sympathy for Isner had anything to do with the outcome.
"I missed more [baseline] shots today than during the whole tournament," Zverev said, adding, "It's not easy against John. You always feel pressure. If you get broken, it's unlikely you win the set. Maybe that was a factor why I made a lot of mistakes."
Was this just an example of karma, Isner earning a reward for his mentorship in the most poignant way possible? We'll never know. Regardless, we do know Isner and Zverev gave fans one last unforgettable moment on Key Biscayne.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -- On Monday morning, Rafael Nadal replaced Roger Federer as the top-ranked player in men's tennis. This, despite the fact that Nadal hasn't played a match since mid-January. An ordinary sports fan couldn't be blamed for feeling baffled.
Is there a better, more relevant ranking system out there?
Perhaps. The Universal Tennis Rating (UTR) system is already taking junior and college tennis by storm. It rates players on a scale ranging from 1 (raw beginner) to 16.5 (Federer pulls a 16.21). The pro ratings generated by UTR are fascinating -- different enough to be significant, but not so different that this becomes an apples and oranges comparison to the current system.
The ATP top five this week are, in descending order: Nadal, Federer, Marin Cilic, Alexander Zverev and Grigor Dimitrov. The UTR top equivalent: Federer, Nadal, Juan Martin del Potro, Nick Kyrgios and David Goffin.
The UTR also has a three-month "trending" rating. Last week in Miami, John Isner faced Hyeon Chung in the quarterfinals. Isner, 17 in the ATP rankings but mired in a slump, was rated No. 20 in UTR. Chung was ranked No. 23, but rated No. 7 by UTR. So by UTR's standards, Chung was the favorite (although Isner did win that match, and the tournament as well).
The current ATP/WTA computer rankings are based on point accumulation. By contrast, UTR ratings crunch data from a player's past 30 matches, using a sophisticated algorithm that also factors the quality of the opponent and even the score differential. UTR pays no attention to age or gender; anyone can register and start working on a rating for free.
Brad Gilbert, an ESPN tennis analyst, first learned of UTR from Victoria McEnroe, a ranked junior player and daughter of Gilbert's fellow broadcaster Patrick McEnroe.
"The UTR now is way more important to kids than the USTA ranking," Gilbert said. "In the juniors, if you have enough money you can go to certain events and pick up points. It breaks things down on the basis of who you played and beat."
The UTR system also allows for great flexibility of playing opportunity. Theoretically, any club can host a UTR tournament.
"You can have UTR tournaments for players of a certain UTR level," said Patrick McEnroe, whose daughter is a rated 7.47. "It could have boys and girls, even adults. It creates a real competitive environment and accurate measure of your ability."
Kamau Murray is the CEO of XS Tennis, a program that targets the underserved youth of Chicago. (Murray is also the coach of US Open champion Sloane Stephens.)
"Our kids love the UTR," Murray told ESPN.com. "They can improve their ratings and maybe earn a college scholarship without having the resources to travel all over the country, chasing points."
Former world No. 1 Novak Djokovic, after losses in opening matches at Indian Wells and Miami, has split with new coach Radek Stepanek.
A lawsuit filed by professional tennis umpire Lois Goodman was rejected by a federal jury on Tuesday. The suit claimed a medical examiner recklessly classified her husband's death as a homicide, leading investigators to falsely accuse her of murder.
After struggling all season, John Isner finally let loose at the Miami Open and walked away with the winner's trophy.
Universal Tennis Rating was launched in 2008 by Virginia tennis pro Dave Howell. Analyzing tournament results he found that, on average, only about one match in four (27 percent) at a junior tournament was competitive; at the USTA nationals level, the percentage rose to 40. Still not very high. He modeled UTR on a similar system that has been used for a long time in France, but added some tweaks.
Mark Leschly, a venture capitalist who played Division I collegiate tennis, is the principal owner of UTR. He told ESPN.com that the rating functions something like a golf handicap. His long-term vision is that UTR becomes the glue that binds together tennis players worldwide, on a digital platform that provides an accurate, portable, verified picture of a player's ability. Over time, it might morph into the main place where enthusiasts at every level gather, communicate and find goods and services.
The UTR ratings are already the principal tool college coaches use for recruiting talent. "The different geographic pathways in tennis are complicated," Leschly said. "How do you pick between a kid highly ranked by his Croatian federation, someone with experience on the ITF Tour and a good kid from NorCal [USTA's northern California section]? Now you can look at their UTRs. It's right there, and the kids know it."
Right now, the UTR has no desire to replace the ATP and WTA rankings. "I think they tell different stories," Leschly said. "The ATP tells a 12-month story of how far you went in major tournaments. With us, it's how you're competing, especially in relation to other players."
The ATP and WTA ranking systems haven't changed significantly in years, nor availed themselves of advances in the era of big data. The tournaments and most players at this point accept it happily, partially because the system is designed to reward players for participating in as many tournaments as possible. That also makes tournament directors happy.
Leschly deals with the temptations of tech every day. "We could develop a more predictive model UTR, take in the variables and put applied math on it. But that departs from our core focus, which is to create a system that allows everyone to be rated and understand what level they're at."
It isn't difficult to see what level Federer and Nadal are at currently. But it would be nice to see that reflected in the rankings.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
How quickly things can change in the supercharged tennis landscape. Look no further than the Americans' performances last week at the Miami Open.
To paraphrase the old cliché, the news of the demise of U.S. tennis has been greatly exaggerated. Even without an in-form Serena Williams, the other American women -- whether Grand Slam champions or intriguing newcomers -- gave the country a sense of optimism as the first quarter of the season came to a close.
"Sloane [Stephens] showed that she steps up in the big stage with the US Open and now here [at the Miami Open]," men's winner John Isner said shortly after claiming his title. "I think she had gone through a losing streak, and she was telling everyone to relax. She was absolutely right about that."
Stephens wasn't the only one who had U.S. fans feeling depressed shortly after the first Grand Slam of the year -- and for many weeks thereafter. The nation's players got off to a start this year that could only be called ugly.
But that all changed at the final Miami Open played on Key Biscayne. Stephens and Isner prevailed, as did Mike and Bob Bryan in men's doubles, along with CoCo Vandeweghe, who, along with Australian Ashleigh Barty, won the women's doubles.
"It seems like something special is happening," Frances Tiafoe, who's just 20, said in Miami, where he logged upsets of Kyle Edmund and perennial Grand Slam contender Tomas Berdych. "It seems each and every week someone is breaking through or proving himself."
Tiafoe is a good example. He was struggling with a 1-4 record, trying to find his game at the start of the New York Open in mid-February. Buoyed by two wins there, Tiafoe went to Delray Beach and swept through a very tough draw to win his first ATP main-tour title. He's at a career-high ranking of No. 58.
"Delray taught me a lot." Tiafoe said. "I beat some quality players back-to-back-to-back [Juan Martin del Potro, Hyeon Chung and Denis Shapovalov], which I've never done. I've played so many matches in my career so far where I played unbelievable, came up just short. Now I'm feeling really comfortable when it gets tight. I actually embrace it; I want it."
It's welcome news because, at the beginning of the year, it seemed as if the only American players who "wanted it" were relative unknowns such as Tennys Sandgren, Bernarda Pera and Lauren Davis.
After two rounds of play at the Australian Open, U.S. players had a grand total of just 12 wins and 20 losses (the women were 6-11, the men an equally anemic 6-9). Only two men, Ryan Harrison and Sandgren, made it as far as the third round. Only three women did the same: Madison Keys, Davis and Pera.
The drought worsened as the weeks went on. Isner, 32, had exactly one ATP tour W at the start of the Miami Open. Stephens was a tepid 2-3. Jack Sock was 3-3, and his ranking dropping from No. 8 to its present No. 16.
This season, Keys posted just one match in the past two months and Vandeweghe still has just one singles tour win on her résumé.
But despite their struggles, the pendulum finally appears to be swinging the other way, with Isner, Tiafoe and Stephens leading the way. And let's not forget reliable Venus Williams; she's a respectable 7-2 since the tour left Australia.
The U.S. has nine men in the top 100, and only two of them (Isner and 30-year-old Sam Querrey) are 30 or older. Querrey is treading water at No. 14. But he has an explosive game that can go off at any time, plus a low-stress style that ought to hold up well into his 30s. Steve Johnson had just one tour win by mid-February, but he's in revival, and Harrison has been on an upward arc all year.
Jared Donaldson, 21, and Taylor Fritz, 20, have also ramped up their results since that dismal late winter period.
Seemingly no one fully understands tennis' current ranking system, but there is a better, more relevant method that could more accurately alter a player's standing.
Kristyna Pliskova rallied from a set down to knock out two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova at the WTA's Volvo Car Open on Wednesday.
Former world No. 1 Novak Djokovic, after losses in opening matches at Indian Wells and Miami, has split with new coach Radek Stepanek.
The U.S. has 15 women in the top 100 if you allow Pera to sneak into the head count at No. 101. Ten of them are 25 or under, led by Stephens and Keys. That's a good sign at a time when everyone is sensing great opportunity.
Three of the more intriguing players to watch in the coming weeks are CiCi Bellis, Danielle Collins and Amanda Anisimova.
Bellis had back-to-back wins over Keys and No. 5 Karolina Pliskova in Doha. Collins is a late-starting pro who insisted on finishing college and won the NCAA championship twice. She has a great deal of poise and a fearless game that bodes well for her future. Anisimova already has wins over former Wimbledon champ Petra Kvitova and dangerous staple Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova.
"The younger generation has arrived, finally," Martina Navratilova, an 18-time Grand Slam winner and Tennis Channel analyst, told ESPN.com. "It's happening on the ATP and the WTA, too."
It seems that a turnaround moment also arrived for U.S. players of all ages at the Miami Open, and not a minute too soon.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -- The United States is off to a perfect start in Davis Cup play this year, and the Americans have to wait and see if they can continue this momentum when they play in the semifinals for the first time since 2012.
Ryan Harrison had the honors Sunday, wrapping up a 4-0 victory over Belgium in essentially an exhibition match, with the U.S. having already clinched a semifinal berth against Croatia on Sept. 14-16. Harrison, ranked 54th in the world in singles, beat Ruben Bemelmans 6-3, 6-4 in 65 minutes after the U.S. won the first three matches to improve to 5-0 all time in Davis Cup play against Belgium.
"It's one of the great challenges in Davis Cup in this current format is the momentum disappears because you don't play again for months on end, so you have to recreate that momentum," U.S. captain Jim Courier said. "As we get going toward the next time in September, it comes on the heels of the US Open, so we'll be leaving after the US Open to go over to Croatia."
That's a long time between matches, with three Grand Slams between now and then leaving open the possibility of injuries, which could affect the current roster of John Isner, Sam Querrey, Jack Sock, Steve Johnson and Harrison. Johnson was the only American not to play in the quarterfinals at Belmont University. Courier said he knows all of the players want to be in Croatia.
"Hopefully, they'll be healthy and playing great, and we'll have the same crew because the energy and camaraderie is really good with the guys, and the options that we have in singles and doubles are really strong and a big benefit," Courier said.
Courier doesn't see any issue with the Americans becoming overconfident, not when they know too well that both Serbia and Belgium were missing key players. Steve Darcis and David Goffin both were out for Belgium, which has reached two of the past three Davis Cup finals.
"I think we all know that we still have a lot to prove," Courier said. "We'll be going on the road to play a very deep team in Croatia, a team that beat us two years ago in the quarterfinals when we were up 2-0. They came back and won the last three matches. So we'll have plenty on our minds when we go there."
Croatia advanced Sunday rather easily, with Marin Cilic downing Mikhail Kukushkin 6-1, 6-1, 6-1.
Spain needed all five matches to advance 3-2 to a semifinal against France. Rafael Nadal started the rally by beating Alexander Zverev 6-1, 6-4, 6-4, and David Ferrer clinched the quarterfinal for the Spaniards by downing Philipp Kohlschreiber 7-6 (1), 3-6, 7-6 (4), 4-6, 7-5. France advanced with a 3-1 win over Italy as Lucas Pouille defeated Fabio Fognini 2-6, 6-1, 7-6 (3), 6-3.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Rafael Nadal gave up just nine games as he crushed No. 4-ranked wunderkind Alexander Zverev on Sunday to engineer Spain's successful turnaround in its quarterfinal Davis Cup win against Germany.
Nadal sent a strong statement, if that wasn't already obvious. This was just his second match since a hip injury forced him to quit in the middle of his Australian Open quarterfinal against Marin Cilic. Nadal's first match, last Friday, at Davis Cup was an equally persuasive win over a lesser light, 34-year-old German veteran Philipp Kohlschreiber.
"It's a great feeling," Nadal said after he demolished Kohlschreiber. "Coming back from injuries is always difficult, but it's great to be in front of my crowd on a very memorable day."
The 31-year-old, No. 1-ranked Nadal manhandled Zverev, 20, on the slow red clay in Valencia in just 2 hours, 16 minutes. A point worth making, because some were puzzled, and others disgruntled, when Nadal took over the No. 1 ranking from Roger Federer last Monday -- while still inactive.
That wasn't a computer glitch or the handiwork of some Nadal-obsessed hacker. Federer was unable to defend the champion's rankings points he earned by winning at Indian Wells and Miami last year. The decline in his 12-month points total was enough to elevate Nadal, who showed he was more than up to the honor.
Nadal looked formidable in Valencia. He used his serve superbly, placing it rather than banging it, as if he were playing darts rather than home run derby. All the familiar, ritualistic ticks were there. Before serving, Nadal tugged at his shorts, then, using the fingertips of his right hand, he grazed in rapid succession his left shoulder, right shoulder, eyebrow, ear, nose and hair. He wiped and flicked away a bead of perspiration from his brow.
Nadal was working, make no mistake. That devastating one-two punch of his sliding, wide serve to the backhand in the ad court, backed by an inside-out forehand winner, won numerous points. Body flexing backward as he belted a forehand, it seemed like he was hitting a heavy object, perhaps a medicine ball. He was quick and resourceful around the net, unafraid to switch from forehand blast to delicate drop shot mid-swing. As usual, Nadal always got that one more ball back over the net to claim points he appeared to have lost.
Here's another statement: The heebee jeebees are gone for good.
Nadal lost confidence during his slump of 2014-15. He was often prone to anxiety as he struggled to reassert himself in 2016, but it set the stage for his spectacular 2017.  Any question of backsliding in the nerve department was laid to rest in Valencia. His resolve was steady, his hand firm.
The United States will take on Croatia in its first Davis Cup semifinals since 2012, with Spain matching up against France on the other side of the bracket.
Kiki Bertens beat Julia Goerges 6-2, 6-1 to cap a long Sunday at the Volvo Car Open and win her fourth career WTA title and third of the past 11 months.
Jack Sock and Ryan Harrison put the United States in the Davis Cup semifinals for the first time since 2012 by beating Belgian duo Sander Gille and Joran Vliegen 5-7, 7-6 (1), 7-6 (3), 6-4 Saturday to finish off an American sweep.
The most diehard of Nadal fans couldn't have asked for a more auspicious return, but the future may not be quite as clear as the weekend suggested. After the Zverev match, a British interviewer asked Nadal if he was "pain free."
Nadal grimaced at the question and replied, "That's difficult [to say], but I am playing with no limitations."
You can forgive Nadal for not entirely trusting his body; he's put on lots of miles over the years. Some of his injuries seemed to come out of the blue, including the most recent one. One minute he's battling Cilic tooth and nail, then a slight tweak in a leg and -- bingo -- he's up at the net, wishing Cilic good luck in the Aussie semifinals.
In the coming weeks, Nadal will face the same challenge that laid low his rival Federer during the U.S. hard-court swing. He must defend a nearly perfect record. Last year, Nadal won three titles and put together a 17-match clay-court winning streak before Dominic Thiem throttled him in Rome. Nadal bounced back and capped the clay season with another triumph at the French Open. In order to maintain his ranking, he will have to come close to duplicating those results.
But if anybody can go undefeated through an entire calendar segment featuring one Grand Slam and three Masters 1000 events, it's Rafael Nadal.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
American professional tennis player Madison Brengle sued the WTA and International Tennis Federation in Florida state court on Monday, seeking unspecified damages for "physical and emotional consequences" related to anti-doping blood tests that involve inserting a needle into a vein.
"She is not disputing that there should be an anti-doping program. She does not dispute that players should be available to have tests administered. But it has to be done in a medically appropriate manner," Brengle's lawyer, Peter Ginsberg, said in a telephone interview after the suit was filed.
"And it has to be done in a way which takes into consideration not only those who manage professional tennis, but also those who play tennis," Ginsberg said. "It's a system totally dominated by the authorities, without any input from the players and without any consideration for the players."
The defendants also include the ITF's Stuart Miller; International Doping Tests and Management (IDTM), a Swedish company that administers drug tests for the ITF; and IDTM doping control officer John Snowball.
Spokespeople for the WTA and ITF did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
The lawsuit says the defendants knew and ignored that Brengle "suffers from a rare medically diagnosed physical condition which results in both temporary and permanent physical injury, emotional trauma, and pain and suffering from having a needle inserted into her vein."
It adds: "Brengle no longer has normal strength in her arm and endures post-trauma injuries that cause both physical and emotional damage."
The suit cites Wimbledon in 2009, and the Australian Open, Wimbledon and US Open in 2016 as tournaments where the testing was problematic.
Brengle also says her reaction to the testing has caused her to miss tournaments.
"She can give blood. She just can't tolerate the needle in her vein. She could give blood via a pin prick in her finger. She will submit to a urinalysis," Ginsberg said. "She's not trying to avoid being tested. She's trying to avoid having a needle being stuck in her veins."
Brengle, who turned 28 this month, was ranked as high as 35th in singles and is currently 83rd.
Her biggest career victory came over Serena Williams at Auckland, New Zealand, in January 2017. Brengle also beat two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova at the All England Club last year.
Born in Delaware and now based in Florida, Brengle has earned more than $2 million in career prize money.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Tennis fans worldwide are on tenterhooks, wondering when Serena Williams will decide to play competitive tennis again. The new mother hasn't said anything about her plans following a 2-2 record at the two big U.S. hard-court events in March. But she has reiterated that she isn't finished yet.
"I feel like there is one day, I am going to wake up and I am going to say, 'I'm done,'" Williams recently said on Bloomberg Business News radio. "I don't know when that will be, but I will know the feeling, and I don't have that feeling yet."
As the Open era's most prolific Grand Slam singles champion, Williams has earned the right to do as she darn well pleases, to return whenever she wants, on her own terms, or not return at all. The legacy has become inviolable.
Should we give Rafa the French Open trophy now? All it took was one Davis Cup weekend to remind us that Rafael Nadal is far and away the best player on clay.
American Madison Brengle, ranked No. 83 in the world, is suing the WTA and ITF for "physical and emotional consequences" related to anti-doping blood tests.
Venus and Serena Williams are adding their names and voices to the push for equal pay across all types of jobs that the Billie Jean King Leadership Initiative is championing.
But there's a problem with that, too, even if it's a good problem to have. Williams is a living icon. The expectations, including her own, are of a different magnitude than if she were just another great player.
Just as Williams knows that one day she will wake up and think, "I'm done," there will be a day in the near future before a tournament when she wakes up and thinks, "I'm ready." On that day, the working caveats -- I'm not fit enough yet, not focused enough, not eager enough -- will no longer be relevant. She will be on the verge of finding out exactly where she stands in a game that cares nothing about the past.
So this might be the best time for Williams to prepare for that "ready" day. The clay-court season is upon us, and it offers something only the summer hard-court season can match: a nice, smooth run-up to a Grand Slam event, the French Open.
The events leading up to the grand finale at Roland Garros are orderly steppingstones sunk into the red clay. It is already underway in Lugano and Bogota; Istanbul, Stuttgart and Prague are in the offing, leading up the ones that ought to be of greatest interest to Williams: Madrid (a Premier Mandatory combined event), Rome and then the French Open.
Clay is ideal for playing your way into shape. A 36-year-old can really appreciate how easy the soft, forgiving surface is, how conducive it is to grooving strokes in long rallies. Those long points also get a player habituated to the fierce, sustained concentration that winning demands.
This, too, should go into the equation: Williams has improved significantly on clay in the late stages of her career. Not coincidentally, her skill advanced at the same pace as her growing love affair with Paris, which peaked when she hammered out a 6-4, 6-4 win over Maria Sharapova in the 2013 French Open final.
By that time, Williams was spending a good deal of time in her own Paris apartment. She was reshaping her expectations and clay game under the guidance of French coach and friend Patrick Mouratoglou. In 2013, Williams made her on-court speeches to the crowd in French and described her ultimate victory as "incroyable."
The win was her first singles championship in Paris since her only other one, 11 years earlier in 2002. It was the payoff as well as the product of many years spent dutifully showing up for the two major clay-court tune-ups (Madrid and Rome) and also playing additional events on the dirt. Williams went on to play two French Open finals in the next three years. She won again in 2015 and left the court the beaten finalist in her last attempt in Paris, in 2016.
Since 2013, Williams has won as many Grand Slam singles titles at Roland Garros as anywhere else.
"I don't know what clicked or didn't click," Williams said at Roland Garros in 2014. "I grew up on hard courts, and then when I turned 10, I played only clay until I turned pro. I have the capability of playing on clay, so I don't know why I wasn't more consistent on clay before. I guess (it's) better late than never, right?"
Williams is 60-12 at Roland Garros, an outstanding 18-1 with two titles in Rome. Her record in Madrid is 20-3 with two titles. That's a grand total of 98-16. Counting other spring clay events, Williams has well over 100 wins in less than a decade, or from the age of 25 onward.
A significant presence on the clay circuit might make things a little complicated on the domestic front. Maybe she'll decide the sacrifice of plugging away for consecutive weeks far from home isn't worth the payoff.
You can bet she's having a conversation of that kind in her heart right now. But that can't go on forever, and time waits for no one. Not even the great Serena Williams.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
The US Open will have 25-second serve clocks on all its courts during main-draw matches this year to enforce time limits between points.
The Grand Slam tournament, which begins in New York on Aug. 27, will also have a strict seven-minute period from when players enter a court until action starts after the warm-up.
Both the serve clocks and strict timing for the warm-up were tested during qualifying matches at Flushing Meadows in 2017.
"We would like to keep the pace of play moving," U.S. Tennis Association spokesman Chris Widmaier said in a telephone interview Wednesday, confirming the main-draw changes that were first reported by The New York Times. "That's our goal."
One other element that the USTA tried out during qualifying matches at last year's tournament that will not make it into the main draw this year is allowing coaches to communicate with their players during matches.
"We certainly will not see coaching in the main draw this year," Widmaier said.
The amount of time taken between points by players has been a topic of conversation in tennis for quite a while now. And although chair umpires are supposed to monitor the seconds, it has not been done uniformly, in part because there is not a readout available for players and spectators to see.
Now there will be something akin to a basketball shot clock for US Open matches.
If a player's 25-second allotment before serving lapses, the chair umpire will issue a warning. The player can be docked a point after a second violation, and then a game after a third, Widmaier said.
Before the start of play, the clocks in New York will mark a seven-minute limit split up this way: one minute from when players step on court until the coin toss; five minutes for the warm-up; one minute until the opening point. Delays can result in fines of up to $20,000, according to Widmaier.
---
More AP tennis coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/apf-Tennis
British No. 1 Kyle Edmund advanced to his third quarterfinal of the season by beating Moldovan Radu Albot in straight sets at the Grand Prix Hassan II in Morocco.
Edmund, who ended Andy Murray's near 12-year reign as British No. 1 in March, made the last eight at the Brisbane International and the Australian Open earlier this year, and he is now into another quarterfinal after overcoming an untidy start to beat Albot 6-,2 6-4.
Neither player could hold their serve in the first three games, but Edmund converted three break points to take the opening set in under 39 minutes.
And he sealed the match in the second set with a deep volley that forced an unforced error from Albot.
Edmund is now the highest seed left in the tournament, with No. 1 seed Albert Ramos-Vinolas exiting the tournament Wednesday.
Kristina Mladenovic is out of the Samsung Open in Lugano, Switzerland, after retiring with a back injury while a set and a break down against German qualifier Tamara Korpatsch.
Mladenovic, the world No. 19, was the top seed for the tournament in Switzerland, but she was forced to call it quits when 7-6, 3-2 down in the second set.
Korpatsch, who is 157 places below Mladenovic in the world rankings, saved a break point in the opening game of the match, but was able to more than match her more established opponent as the first set wore on, eventually taking it by tiebreak before Mladenovic's decision to retire in the second set.
There were other shocks elsewhere, as fourth seed Anett Kontaveit squandered a set lead to Vera Lapko, while the fifth seed, Svetlana Kuznetsova, also crashed out in defeat to Mona Barthel.
Like spring itself, the clay-court season evolves slowly, starting with near-wintry conditions. It will peak with flowers in full bloom under warm and sunny skies in Paris at the French Open. Right now, multiple questions are sprouting about what the WTA has in store during the clay segment.
Here are five of the most intriguing:
1. Will the WTA free-for-all continue?
This year's Australian Open appeared to restore the order that had crumbled after Serena Williams left the tour as an expectant mother in February 2017. The stars dominated in Melbourne, as the singles final featured the two top seeds. But after the first Grand Slam, the volatility of 2017 crept back into the game, peaking at the end of the hard-court season as Lesya Tsurenko won Acapulco, Naomi Osaka took the big title at Indian Wells and Sloane Stephens burst out of a slump to win the Miami Open.
We don't know what Serena Williams' immediate plans are, but the best thing she can do is return right now for the long clay-season haul.
Should we give Rafa the French Open trophy now? All it took was one Davis Cup weekend to remind us that Rafael Nadal is far and away the best player on clay.
The United States will take on Croatia in its first Davis Cup semifinals since 2012, with Spain matching up against France on the other side of the bracket.
While some promising new players are emerging -- Osaka, Daria Kasatkina, Danielle Collins and CiCi Bellis among them -- the established names are likely to take control. Garbine Muguruza, Petra Kvitova, Sloane Stephens, Victoria Azarenka and Angelique Kerber all seem to be rounding back into form, and all of them are Grand Slam singles champions. We could see a surprise finalist here, a newcomer in the semis there. But clay calls for patience, consistency and experience -- the qualities of proven champions.
2. Will the Williams sisters be a factor?
This question invokes both sisters because at this point we don't even know where and when new mother Serena will play again. But you can't ever count her out when she decides to compete, so we'll leave the question hanging.
As for Venus, she probably will face a struggle to leave a significant mark on the Euroclay. She's a tepid 7-4 this year on all surfaces, with no finals. On clay, Venus hasn't been in a singles final since the Madrid Open in 2010. She was the No. 3 seed then but was upset in the title match by France's No. 24 Aravane Rezai.
Now 37, Venus has been in one French Open final, but it was a mind-boggling 16 years ago. She hasn't been as far as the quarterfinals since 2006. She's also been cutting back her already limited schedule, leaving herself little time to groove her clay game or play her way into contention at big events. Venus had a remarkable year in 2017, but if she's going to recapture the form that lifted her as high as No. 5 last fall, she will most likely do it during the summer grass and hard-court segments.
3. Will Simona Halep finally close the deal in Paris?
The diminutive, indefatigable Romanian has suffered some crushing defeats in big moments, but none as dispiriting as her 2017 French Open loss to Grand Slam finals rookie Jelena Ostapenko. Halep has plenty of motivation and experience, having lost a very close final in the same stadium in 2014 to Maria Sharapova. Yet Halep couldn't hold her lead of a set and a break against her 18-year-old opponent in June.
Halep went on to have a great year, finishing No. 1. Nobody faulted her for losing this year's Australian Open final to fellow WTA Grand Slam bridesmaid Caroline Wozniacki. Physically, Halep was a wreck, but she still managed to play an excellent match. While she's won just one minor title so far this year, Halep has compiled an outstanding 19-3 record, good enough to keep her No. 1 -- and to whet her appetite for more. She's positioned to have an excellent clay season, as long as the oft-injured 26-year-old remains healthy.
4. Who's likely to be the most pleasant surprise on clay?


Out with injury all of last spring, Stephens said in Miami that she sorely missed the clay season of 2017. "I'm really looking forward to it [this year]," she said. "I'm super excited to get back out there. Red clay is my favorite."
Stephens seems to be turning into a player who comes up big at critical moments. She's a Grand Slam champion now. Her cat-and-mouse tactics, clever counter-punching and excellent feel for the ball are tools that have carried her to the fourth round at Roland Garros twice in the past. A steady diet of red clay will do wonders for her fitness and confidence.
Also keep your eyes on Elina Svitolina, who's ranked No. 4 but flying under the radar as far as hype and expectations go. Just 23, she's a year younger than former French Open and Wimbledon champion Garbine Muguruza. While Svitolina hasn't won the big one, she has an impregnable baseline game, keeps improving slowly and has been super consistent. She could put together a great run on clay.
5. Will Ostapenko successfully defend her French Open title?
Very few first-time Grand Slam champions successfully defended those titles. Azarenka did it with back-to-back wins in Australian in 2012-13, but she's the outlier. So the odds are stacked against Ostapenko, who's just 20 years old and still adjusting to her newfound status -- and the pressures and distractions it brings.
But Ostapenko hasn't played badly. Her ranking was No. 47 at the time she won the French Open and was No. 7 by the end of the year. Now she's up to No. 5. Ostapenko hasn't lost a first-round match since the first week of the year, at Sydney. More promising, she made the final at the Miami Open. She's such a bold and powerful ball-striker that if she's fit she could dominate on clay, perhaps even emulate Azarenka with a successful defense of her first major title.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Like spring itself, the clay-court season evolves slowly, starting with near-wintry conditions. It will peak with flowers in full bloom under warm and sunny skies in Paris at the French Open. Right now, multiple questions are sprouting about what the WTA has in store during the clay segment.
Here are five of the most intriguing:
1. Will the WTA free-for-all continue?
This year's Australian Open appeared to restore the order that had crumbled after Serena Williams left the tour as an expectant mother in February 2017. The stars dominated in Melbourne, as the singles final featured the two top seeds. But after the first Grand Slam, the volatility of 2017 crept back into the game, peaking at the end of the hard-court season as Lesya Tsurenko won Acapulco, Naomi Osaka took the big title at Indian Wells and Sloane Stephens burst out of a slump to win the Miami Open.
While some promising new players are emerging -- Osaka, Daria Kasatkina, Danielle Collins and CiCi Bellis among them -- the established names are likely to take control. Garbine Muguruza, Petra Kvitova, Sloane Stephens, Victoria Azarenka and Angelique Kerber all seem to be rounding back into form, and all of them are Grand Slam singles champions. We could see a surprise finalist here, a newcomer in the semis there. But clay calls for patience, consistency and experience -- the qualities of proven champions.
2. Will the Williams sisters be a factor?
This question invokes both sisters because at this point we don't even know where and when new mother Serena will play again. But you can't ever count her out when she decides to compete, so we'll leave the question hanging.
As for Venus, she probably will face a struggle to leave a significant mark on the Euroclay. She's a tepid 7-4 this year on all surfaces, with no finals. On clay, Venus hasn't been in a singles final since the Madrid Open in 2010. She was the No. 3 seed then but was upset in the title match by France's No. 24 Aravane Rezai.
Now 37, Venus has been in one French Open final, but it was a mind-boggling 16 years ago. She hasn't been as far as the quarterfinals since 2006. She's also been cutting back her already limited schedule, leaving herself little time to groove her clay game or play her way into contention at big events. Venus had a remarkable year in 2017, but if she's going to recapture the form that lifted her as high as No. 5 last fall, she will most likely do it during the summer grass and hard-court segments.
3. Will Simona Halep finally close the deal in Paris?
The diminutive, indefatigable Romanian has suffered some crushing defeats in big moments, but none as dispiriting as her 2017 French Open loss to Grand Slam finals rookie Jelena Ostapenko. Halep has plenty of motivation and experience, having lost a very close final in the same stadium in 2014 to Maria Sharapova. Yet Halep couldn't hold her lead of a set and a break against her 18-year-old opponent in June.
Halep went on to have a great year, finishing No. 1. Nobody faulted her for losing this year's Australian Open final to fellow WTA Grand Slam bridesmaid Caroline Wozniacki. Physically, Halep was a wreck, but she still managed to play an excellent match. While she's won just one minor title so far this year, Halep has compiled an outstanding 19-3 record, good enough to keep her No. 1 -- and to whet her appetite for more. She's positioned to have an excellent clay season, as long as the oft-injured 26-year-old remains healthy.
4. Who's likely to be the most pleasant surprise on clay?

Out with injury all of last spring, Stephens said in Miami that she sorely missed the clay season of 2017. "I'm really looking forward to it [this year]," she said. "I'm super excited to get back out there. Red clay is my favorite."
Stephens seems to be turning into a player who comes up big at critical moments. She's a Grand Slam champion now. Her cat-and-mouse tactics, clever counter-punching and excellent feel for the ball are tools that have carried her to the fourth round at Roland Garros twice in the past. A steady diet of red clay will do wonders for her fitness and confidence.
Also keep your eyes on Elina Svitolina, who's ranked No. 4 but flying under the radar as far as hype and expectations go. Just 23, she's a year younger than former French Open and Wimbledon champion Garbine Muguruza. While Svitolina hasn't won the big one, she has an impregnable baseline game, keeps improving slowly and has been super consistent. She could put together a great run on clay.
5. Will Ostapenko successfully defend her French Open title?
Very few first-time Grand Slam champions successfully defended those titles. Azarenka did it with back-to-back wins in Australian in 2012-13, but she's the outlier. So the odds are stacked against Ostapenko, who's just 20 years old and still adjusting to her newfound status -- and the pressures and distractions it brings.
But Ostapenko hasn't played badly. Her ranking was No. 47 at the time she won the French Open and was No. 7 by the end of the year. Now she's up to No. 5. Ostapenko hasn't lost a first-round match since the first week of the year, at Sydney. More promising, she made the final at the Miami Open. She's such a bold and powerful ball-striker that if she's fit she could dominate on clay, perhaps even emulate Azarenka with a successful defense of her first major title.
No. 2 seed Elise Mertens overcame rain delays and a 2½-hour encounter with Marketa Vondrousova on Friday to book her spot in the Samsung Open quarterfinals.
Rain affected play in Lugano, Switzerland, for the fifth successive day, but Mertens eventually won through 6-2, 5-7, 7-5 to advance to the last eight.
"With the rain, it's not easy just to come on, come off court, but it was a really close match and I'm happy I won it in the third," Mertens told the WTA's official website after her match. "I tried to keep up my game, but of course it was difficult. We were both competing well in the third set."
Sixth seed Alize Cornet and eighth seed Aliaksandra Sasnovich were not so lucky, losing to Stefanie Voegele and Kirsten Flipkens respectively. Home favourite Voegele came from a set down to win 2-6, 7-5, 6-3, and Flipkens secured a 4-6, 6-4, 6-2 triumph.
Elsewhere, Tamara Korpatsch defeated Kathinka Von Deichmann 7-6 (2), 6-4 and Vera Lapko saw off Danka Kovinic 6-2, 6-3.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HOUSTON -- Defending champion Steve Johnson wore down Taylor Fritz 7-5, 6-7 (4), 6-2 on Saturday, breaking his 20-year-old countryman twice in the third set after letting two match points slip away in the second set of the U.S. Men's Clay Court semifinals.
Johnson will play Tennys Sandgren, another American who advanced to his first ATP World Tour final by neutralizing Ivo Karlovic's huge serve in a 7-6 (2), 7-6 (4) victory.
"To get my hands on that trophy [again] would mean a lot, both tennis-wise and emotion-wise," Johnson said.
With another win Sunday, which would be Johnson's ninth in a row in Houston, the 26-year-old Californian will be the first repeat champion since Andy Roddick in 2001-02.
It's only the tournament's second all-American final since Andre Agassi prevented Roddick from claiming a third in a row in 2003. In the other, Jack Sock beat Sam Querrey in 2015.
The 26-year-old Sandgren, from Nashville, Tennessee, wobbled in the second set, throwing in three double faults in the sixth game to let the 6-foot-11 Karlovic get back on serve, and then he had to fend off a set point against his serve. But he said he didn't let "my negative side get the best of me," and he again proved to be the stronger player in the tiebreaker.
No. 2 seed Elise Mertens defeated Aryna Sabalenka 7-5, 6-2 in the Samsung Open final Sunday to win her second WTA singles title of the year.
Belgian Mertens' consistency ultimately won her the match in Lugano, Switzerland, with nine winners and only seven unforced errors against the World No. 61 Sabalenka.
Mertens, 22, broke her opponent four times despite the 19-year-old Sabalenka hitting 24 winners, including three aces.
"[Sabalenka is] very powerful and also has a great serve, so I tried to keep my balls deep and as aggressive as I could," Mertens told the WTA's official website. "I kept her moving and tried to play my game, always trying to keep one more ball in the court."
.@WTASamsungOpen Champion @Elise_Mertens and runner-up @SabalenkaA pose with their trophies before they face off in today's doubles final! pic.twitter.com/kFREI34doo
She added: "So many games were 40-40 and it could have gone either way. But I'm really happy that I pulled through yesterday and the day before, because these weren't easy. It was a great match today and I hope everyone here today liked it"
Mertens faced several stumbling blocks before the final, with rain interrupting play throughout the week and a tough match against defending champion Marketa Vondrousova in the second round.
The world No. 20 also won three back-to-back three-set matches the day before the championship final.
Mertens won her second Hobart International Championships earlier this year, having also won in 2017, becoming the first person to lift the trophy twice.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MONACO -- Karen Khachanov was clinical on his serve in a 7-5, 6-4 win against Thanasi Kokkinakis of Australia in the first round of the Monte Carlo Masters on Sunday.
The big-serving Russian had five aces and did not face a single break point.
Kokkinakis recently beat 20-time Grand Slam champion Roger Federer in the second round of the Miami Open -- becoming the lowest-ranked man to beat a No. 1 in 15 years -- but the powerful Australian could not produce anything like that form this time.
Khachanov constantly pressured his opponent's serve, yet could convert only two of his 13 break points.
Khachanov, who won his second career ATP Tour title at the Open 13 in Marseille in February, next faces either Gilles Simon or 16th-seeded Adrian Mannarino.
If he beats the winner of that all-French match, Khachanov could face defending champion Rafael Nadal in the third round.
Nadal has a first-round bye and plays Aljaz Bedene or Mirza Basic in Round 2. The 10-time champion needs to win the tournament or Federer regains the top ranking.
In Sunday's other first-round matches, there were wins for Mischa Zverev of Germany and Daniil Medvedev of Russia.
Zverev labored to a 6-2, 6-7 (4), 6-1 win against 17-year-old Canadian Felix Auger-Aliassime and next faces seventh-seeded Frenchman Lucas Pouille.
Medvedev rallied to beat Marton Fucsovics of Hungary 6-7 (4), 6-2, 7-5, saving seven of eight break points. He meets either Kei Nishikori of Japan or 12th-seeded Czech Tomas Berdych, the 2015 runner-up, on Monday.
Two-time champion Novak Djokovic, still struggling with a persistent right elbow injury, is also in first-round action Monday.
The ninth-seeded Serb, who recently split with coach Andre Agassi, takes on countryman Dusan Lajovic. He beat Lajovic in their only previous meeting three years ago.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MONACO -- Karen Khachanov was clinical on his serve in a 7-5, 6-4 win against Thanasi Kokkinakis of Australia in the first round of the Monte Carlo Masters on Sunday.
The big-serving Russian had five aces and did not face a single break point. 
Kokkinakis recently beat 20-time Grand Slam champion Roger Federer in the second round of the Miami Open -- becoming the lowest-ranked man to beat a No. 1 in 15 years -- but the powerful Australian could not produce anything like that form this time.
Khachanov constantly pressured his opponent's serve, yet could convert only two of his 13 break points.
Khachanov, who won his second career ATP Tour title at the Open 13 in Marseille in February, next faces either Gilles Simon or 16th-seeded Adrian Mannarino.
If he beats the winner of that all-French match, Khachanov could face defending champion Rafael Nadal in the third round.
Nadal has a first-round bye and plays Aljaz Bedene or Mirza Basic in Round 2. The 10-time champion needs to win the tournament or Federer regains the top ranking.
In Sunday's other first-round matches, there were wins for Mischa Zverev of Germany and Daniil Medvedev of Russia.
Zverev labored to a 6-2, 6-7 (4), 6-1 win against 17-year-old Canadian Felix Auger-Aliassime and next faces seventh-seeded Frenchman Lucas Pouille.
Medvedev rallied to beat Marton Fucsovics of Hungary 6-7 (4), 6-2, 7-5, saving seven of eight break points. He meets either Kei Nishikori of Japan or 12th-seeded Czech Tomas Berdych, the 2015 runner-up, on Monday.
Two-time champion Novak Djokovic, still struggling with a persistent right elbow injury, is also in first-round action Monday.
The ninth-seeded Serb, who recently split with coach Andre Agassi, takes on countryman Dusan Lajovic. He beat Lajovic in their only previous meeting three years ago.
HOUSTON -- Steve Johnson shrugged off numerous missed opportunities to beat first-time ATP Tour finalist Tennys Sandgren 7-6 (2), 2-6, 6-4 on Sunday to become the first player to successfully defend the U.S. Men's Clay Court title in 16 years.
Johnson, a 28-year-old from Palos Verdes, California, won only two of the 14 break points he had against Sandgren's serve, but the second in the penultimate game of the nearly two-and-a-half-hour match put him in position to serve for the match, his third three-setter in a row.
Johnson then fended off a break point himself and secured the title, only his third at the ATP level, when Sandgren lofted a backhand return a couple of feet long.
"I felt like I could have taken more advantage of all those break points," Johnson said. "I didn't play the way I would have liked to play, and then he started to play good at the end of the second set. In the third set, I was just hanging on at the beginning and trying to fight off his momentum. A final is not like any other match, but you try to trick yourself into thinking it is. That's what the top guys do so well."
No player had repeated in the only men's clay-court tournament in the U.S. since Andy Roddick won back-to-back at a different venue in 2001-02. It was the second all-American final since Andre Agassi prevented Roddick from taking his third in a row in 2003, after Jack Sock's victory over Sam Querrey in 2015.
Johnson will marry longtime girlfriend Kendall Bateman on Saturday in California. Fellow pros John Isner, Querrey and Dennis Kudla will serve as groomsmen.
"Now it's all wedding stuff," he said. "I'll go home, take a few days to relax, go golf a little bit in Palm Springs."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
HOUSTON -- Steve Johnson shrugged off numerous missed opportunities to beat first-time ATP Tour finalist Tennys Sandgren 7-6 (2), 2-6, 6-4 on Sunday to become the first player to successfully defend the U.S. Men's Clay Court title in 16 years.
Johnson, a 28-year-old from Palos Verdes, California, won only two of the 14 break points he had against Sandgren's serve, but the second in the penultimate game of the nearly two-and-a-half-hour match put him in position to serve for the match, his third three-setter in a row.
Johnson then fended off a break point himself and secured the title, only his third at the ATP level, when Sandgren lofted a backhand return a couple of feet long.
"I felt like I could have taken more advantage of all those break points," Johnson said. "I didn't play the way I would have liked to play, and then he started to play good at the end of the second set. In the third set, I was just hanging on at the beginning and trying to fight off his momentum. A final is not like any other match, but you try to trick yourself into thinking it is. That's what the top guys do so well."
No player had repeated in the only men's clay-court tournament in the U.S. since Andy Roddick won back-to-back at a different venue in 2001-02. It was the second all-American final since Andre Agassi prevented Roddick from taking his third in a row in 2003, after Jack Sock's victory over Sam Querrey in 2015.
Johnson will marry longtime girlfriend Kendall Bateman on Saturday in California. Fellow pros John Isner, Querrey and Dennis Kudla will serve as groomsmen.
"Now it's all wedding stuff," he said. "I'll go home, take a few days to relax, go golf a little bit in Palm Springs."
Kyle Edmund chose to focus on a positive week as his wait for a first ATP Tour title goes on.
The British number one appeared primed to lift silverware for the first time on the main men's tour when he was paired with world no. 355 Pablo Andujar in the Grand Prix Hassan II final in Marrakech.
But in his first final at this level Edmund, who got to the Australian Open semis in January, lost 6-2 6-2 to the Spaniard.
It was definitely a missed opportunity for the 23-year-old, but he will still advance to a career high ranking of 23 when the new list comes out on Monday.
"For me it was a good tournament, it was great experience for me," said Edmund on the ATP Tour's official website.
"It's been a good year so far, it's not the result I wanted, but nevertheless a good week for me."
The Briton was the heavy favourite coming into the match but he could not have endured a worse start, losing his first three service games as Andujar wrapped up the opening set in 40 minutes.
Any hopes of a comeback were soon dashed as Edmund again dropped his serve in the opening game of the second set.
He lost his own delivery a further two times as Andujar won a fourth ATP title and first since 2014.
The Spaniard said: "I played very well during the whole match, trying to make him move as much as I could.
"He attacks a lot and is a very strong player. I was very solid today and I'm very happy about that."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
British No. 3 Naomi Broady crashed out of the Zhengzhou Open in the first round, losing in straight sets to 17-year-old Xiyu Wang, of China.
Broady, 28, who won her first WTA title with victory alongside Spain's Sara Sorribes Tormo in the doubles at the Monterrey Open a week ago, never got to grips with her young opponent, who at World No. 496 is 362 places below her in the world rankings.
Broady was broken in the opening game of the match and, although she levelled in the fourth game, a ninth double fault in the eighth game proved costly as she dropped her serve for a second time and her opponent served out for the set.
Broady continued to struggle on her serve in the second set and was broken for a seventh time, allowing her opponent to serve out for a 6-4 7-5 victory that sets up a second-round meeting with Vera Zvonareva or sixth seed Yanina Wickmayer.
Elsewhere in the opening round, unseeded American Danielle Lao beat third seed Luksika Kumkhum in straight sets to progress.
Information from Press Association Sport was used in this report.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
British No. 3 Naomi Broady crashed out of the Zhengzhou Open in the first round, losing in straight sets to 17-year-old Xiyu Wang, of China.
Broady, 28, who won her first WTA title with victory alongside Spain's Sara Sorribes Tormo in the doubles at the Monterrey Open a week ago, never got to grips with her young opponent, who at World No. 496 is 362 places below her in the world rankings.
Broady was broken in the opening game of the match and, although she levelled in the fourth game, a ninth double fault in the eighth game proved costly as she dropped her serve for a second time and her opponent served out for the set.
Broady continued to struggle on her serve in the second set and was broken for a seventh time, allowing her opponent to serve out for a 6-4 7-5 victory that sets up a second-round meeting with Vera Zvonareva or sixth seed Yanina Wickmayer.
Elsewhere in the opening round, unseeded American Danielle Lao beat third seed Luksika Kumkhum in straight sets to progress.
Information from Press Association Sport was used in this report.
MONACO -- Novak Djokovic reached the second round of the Monte Carlo Masters with a 6-0, 6-1 win over Dusan Lajovic on Monday.
The ninth-seeded Serb won in only 57 minutes despite having to save break points in three consecutive service games in the second set, including two when serving for the match.
Djokovic, a two-time champion in Monte Carlo, won on his first match point when Lajovic swiped a forehand wide. He then whipped off his hat, tilted his head back and raised his hands in triumph.
The former-top ranked Djokovic has been troubled by a persistent right elbow injury and his ranking has tumbled to No. 13. Earlier this month, he stopped working with Andre Agassi and Radek Stepanek -- the latest in a series of coaching changes for the 12-time major champion. He has not won a Grand Slam tournament since the 2016 French Open.
"I've had a very difficult time in the last 12 months with the injury and everything else that's happened," Djokovic said. "I'm lacking matches and a bit of confidence on court. But I'm looking ahead."
Djokovic will next face Borna Coric of Croatia, who beat French veteran Julien Benneteau 6-2, 6-3.
Kei Nishikori reached the second round by beating Tomas Berdych 4-6, 6-2, 6-1. He broke the 12th-seeded Czech's serve six times and dropped his own twice.
Nishikori, like Djokovic, needs time on court after only recently returning from a torn tendon in his right wrist. That injury had ruled him out of last year's US Open and this year's Australian Open.
The Japanese player, ranked 36th, came back in late February when he lost to Denis Shapovalov in the first round of the Mexico Open. He then reached the third round of the Miami Masters last month, losing to Juan Martin del Potro.
"It's not great but first match on clay, I'm expecting (a) little soreness," Nishikori said. "Hope I get more confidence and do well (at) these five tournaments on clay."
Other winners included Roberto Bautista Agut of Spain, Milos Raonic of Canada, Andrey Rublev of Russia, and Albert Ramos-Vinolas of Spain.
Ramos-Vinolas, who lost in last year's final, beat Jared Donaldson 6-3, 6-3. Donaldson ranted at the chair umpire over a line call and then squared up to him as he continued to argue. The 21-year-old American received a code violation.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MONACO -- Everything Novak Djokovic does on the tennis court right now should come with the disclaimer: "Let's wait and see." At least the former world No. 1, who hasn't been so since November 2016, seems to be moving in the right direction again.
Call them baby steps, but on Monday at the picturesque Rolex Monte Carlo Masters, Djokovic cruised to a 6-0, 6-1 win over fellow Serb Dusan Lajovic, who seemed happy enough to abide by some unwritten rule that to beat Serbia's greatest ever would be downright rude.
Novak Djokovic and Kei Nishikori both won their opening matches at the Monte Carlo Masters and are on to the second round.
All out of sorts the last time he stepped onto the court, in a loss to Benoit Paire in Miami, Djokovic looked more solid and confident than he has since beginning his comeback in Australia after six months away with an elbow injury. The problem is, it's hard to get a read on exactly how Djokovic is feeling.
Having had a "small surgical intervention" to help his elbow at the start of February, Djokovic said at Miami that he was finally pain-free, but then on Monday he revealed that actually, he had still been feeling discomfort in both events and that he had tried to come back too soon.
"[Now] after two years finally I can play without pain," he said. "Indian Wells, Miami, especially Indian Wells, was not like that. Indian Wells and Miami were really kind of a struggle on the court for me mentally. I know that I can play much better than that, but I couldn't. I just wasn't ready. And that's it."
There was satisfaction at his performance, but listening to him, it was almost like he was priming himself for a fall, knowing there might be more false dawns before he gets anywhere close to dominating the sport again, as he did a few years ago.
"I personally feel, and I know that you can also see it from outside, that I'm lacking more of the match play, more of the situations of, you know, competition, playing out points in an official match," Djokovic said.
"Under the circumstances and considering I haven't played too many official matches, I thought I played well, started the tournament well. It's first match on clay. It's against a very good friend of mine, who obviously hasn't played at his best, was making a lot of mistakes. Still, I thought all in all, it was a great start of the tournament."
It was at Monte Carlo this time last year that Djokovic made the decision to split with his long-term coach and mentor Marian Vajda, as well as two other members of his team. A year on and Vajda is back, at least for this week, and when Vajda's there, all seems happy in Camp Novak.
"It's a fresh start I think for both of us," Djokovic said. "I missed him. I have a feeling that he missed me or tennis or both. He knows me better than any tennis coach I've worked with. He's a friend. He's someone I can share a lot of things with, whether it's professional or private life. He's always there for me. He knows me inside-out. He knows what I need in order to get to the highest possible level of play. We could not ask for a better start."
The return of Vajda comes hot off of the departure of Andre Agassi, who told ESPN at Miami that they would no longer be working together, adding that they often disagreed. Djokovic made pains to explain that Agassi never had an official contract, that he was really only helping him because he wanted to. Their split -- not that he called it that -- was amicable, Djokovic said.
There is no long-term commitment yet, but Djokovic must be counting himself lucky that Vajda has been willing to return a year after effectively being dumped. Liked and admired on the Tour, Vajda is a calming influence and someone who understands Djokovic and helped get him to the top.
If Djokovic truly is pain-free and free of fear of injury, then he is on the right track. We'll get a better idea of his state of mind -- and body -- when he plays his second-round match on Wednesday against Borna Coric, the Croatian who is on the verge of the world's top 30.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MONACO -- Everything Novak Djokovic does on the tennis court right now should come with the disclaimer: "Let's wait and see." At least the former world No. 1, who hasn't been so since November 2016, seems to be moving in the right direction again.
Call them baby steps, but on Monday at the picturesque Rolex Monte Carlo Masters, Djokovic cruised to a 6-0, 6-1 win over fellow Serb Dusan Lajovic, who seemed happy enough to abide by some unwritten rule that to beat Serbia's greatest ever would be downright rude.
All out of sorts the last time he stepped onto the court, in a loss to Benoit Paire in Miami, Djokovic looked more solid and confident than he has since beginning his comeback in Australia after six months away with an elbow injury. The problem is, it's hard to get a read on exactly how Djokovic is feeling.
Having had a "small surgical intervention" to help his elbow at the start of February, Djokovic said at Miami that he was finally pain-free, but then on Monday he revealed that actually, he had still been feeling discomfort in both events and that he had tried to come back too soon.
"[Now] after two years finally I can play without pain," he said. "Indian Wells, Miami, especially Indian Wells, was not like that. Indian Wells and Miami were really kind of a struggle on the court for me mentally. I know that I can play much better than that, but I couldn't. I just wasn't ready. And that's it."
There was satisfaction at his performance, but listening to him, it was almost like he was priming himself for a fall, knowing there might be more false dawns before he gets anywhere close to dominating the sport again, as he did a few years ago.
"I personally feel, and I know that you can also see it from outside, that I'm lacking more of the match play, more of the situations of, you know, competition, playing out points in an official match," Djokovic said.
"Under the circumstances and considering I haven't played too many official matches, I thought I played well, started the tournament well. It's first match on clay. It's against a very good friend of mine, who obviously hasn't played at his best, was making a lot of mistakes. Still, I thought all in all, it was a great start of the tournament."
It was at Monte Carlo this time last year that Djokovic made the decision to split with his long-term coach and mentor Marian Vajda, as well as two other members of his team. A year on and Vajda is back, at least for this week, and when Vajda's there, all seems happy in Camp Novak.
"It's a fresh start I think for both of us," Djokovic said. "I missed him. I have a feeling that he missed me or tennis or both. He knows me better than any tennis coach I've worked with. He's a friend. He's someone I can share a lot of things with, whether it's professional or private life. He's always there for me. He knows me inside-out. He knows what I need in order to get to the highest possible level of play. We could not ask for a better start."
The return of Vajda comes hot off of the departure of Andre Agassi, who told ESPN at Miami that they would no longer be working together, adding that they often disagreed. Djokovic made pains to explain that Agassi never had an official contract, that he was really only helping him because he wanted to. Their split -- not that he called it that -- was amicable, Djokovic said.
There is no long-term commitment yet, but Djokovic must be counting himself lucky that Vajda has been willing to return a year after effectively being dumped. Liked and admired on the Tour, Vajda is a calming influence and someone who understands Djokovic and helped get him to the top.
If Djokovic truly is pain-free and free of fear of injury, then he is on the right track. We'll get a better idea of his state of mind -- and body -- when he plays his second-round match on Wednesday against Borna Coric, the Croatian who is on the verge of the world's top 30.
SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Maria Sharapova has committed to play in the Bay Area this summer as the former Stanford WTA stop moves to San Jose State University.
The five-time Grand Slam champion will play in the Mubadala Silicon Valley Classic from July 30 to. Aug. 5, the tournament announced Monday. It has a 28-player singles draw.
This will be the first year of the event at San Jose State after the former Bank of the West Classic was held at Stanford.
After a first-round win last year, former world No. 1 Sharapova withdrew from the 2017 tournament at Stanford with soreness in her left arm. That came after she dealt with a left thigh injury following her April 2017 return from a 15-month doping ban.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Maria Sharapova has committed to play in the Bay Area this summer as the former Stanford WTA stop moves to San Jose State University.
The five-time Grand Slam champion will play in the Mubadala Silicon Valley Classic from July 30 to. Aug. 5, the tournament announced Monday. It has a 28-player singles draw.
This will be the first year of the event at San Jose State after the former Bank of the West Classic was held at Stanford.
After a first-round win last year, former world No. 1 Sharapova withdrew from the 2017 tournament at Stanford with soreness in her left arm. That came after she dealt with a left thigh injury following her April 2017 return from a 15-month doping ban.
Dan Evans will make his comeback from a drugs ban in Glasgow next week after being handed a wildcard entry by the Lawn Tennis Association.
Evans, 24, who has served a one-year ban after testing positive for cocaine during the Barcelona Open last year, is set to play in the qualifying draw for the Glasgow Trophy, an ATP Challenger tournament.
"The LTA condemns any form of doping, which has no place in our sport," LTA performance director Simon Timson said.
"We have been having regular contact with Dan and he has shown genuine commitment to getting his tennis career back on track.
"We have provided a structured programme of sports science and medicine support to help his journey since Dan became eligible again."
Timson said the former British No.2 had passed all the LTA's latest checks over a six-week period and will continue to be assessed.
"Our continued support will be entirely dependent on a non-negotiable commitment to ongoing monitoring," Timson added.
Evans rose to a career-high ranking of No.41 in the world last year and reached the fourth round of the 2017 Australian Open after knocking out former champion Marin Cilic.
"I want to thank everyone who has supported me throughout this difficult period," said Evans, down to 422 in the rankings.
"I have learned a lot about myself in my time away from the game, a sport that I love very dearly. I'm grateful to those who have stood by me, the fans and the LTA for the opportunity to compete again."
The Glasgow Trophy, a $100,000 ATP Challenger tournament, will be held at Scotstoun Leisure Centre from April 28-May 6.
No one enjoys playing tennis more than Austria's Dominic Thiem, or at least, no one plays more tennis than Thiem. In his short time on the ATP Tour, the world No. 7 has racked up air miles, quickly establishing himself as the ironman of the men's game.
So it must have come as something of a shock, then, for the 24-year-old to find himself sitting on the sofa last month, taking it easy while the world's best players were battling it out in Miami.
If it was by necessity rather than by design, as he recovered from a nasty-looking ankle injury, it may just have been exactly what he needed.
In the past four years, Thiem has played 27, 27, 30 and 24 tournaments respectively, plus one Davis Cup outing each year. He needed a rest, so instead of arriving at the Monte Carlo already feeling the effects of the Tour in his legs, Thiem turned up on the Cote d'Azur feeling fresh and ready to go.
Grigor Dimitrov and Dominic Thiem both had to come from a set down to win their second-round matches at the Monte Carlo Masters on Tuesday.
The former World No. 1 didn't show any signs in his Monaco opener of the elbow injury that has plagued him, but it's too early to say the 12-time Grand Slam champion is ready to dominate again.
"It was very nice, to be honest," said Thiem, who saved a match point to beat Russia's Andrey Rublev 5-7, 7-5, 7-5 in the second round of the Masters 1000 event on Tuesday. "I was at home for three, four weeks, which didn't happen for a long time. I did a lot of things that there is no time for when there is a normal schedule. The injury was not that bad, so it was not a bad time at all."
Thiem played 76 matches in 2017, a mark only beaten by David Goffin (83), Rafael Nadal (78) and Sascha Zverev (77). In 2016, his total of 82 matches was beaten only by the 87 of Andy Murray.
The ankle he injured in Indian Wells turned out to be just bruising, rather than ligament damage. Though he spent plenty of time on the practice court since, could it be that less is more?
"Actually I had a better preparation to come into the clay-court season than in previous years, because it was only one week between Miami and Monte Carlo and I think I have more hours in my body on clay before Monte Carlo than I did in the past years," he said.
With Nadal still going strong at the top of the rankings and seemingly fit again after returning from injury at the Davis Cup last weekend, winning the French Open may still be beyond the other 127 players who will make it into the main draw at the French Open next month.
But with doubts about when or if Novak Djokovic will regain top form, and with Murray and Stan Wawrinka still out with injury, the door is open for someone to come out of the pack this spring. Thiem, remember, was the only man to beat Nadal on clay last year, in Rome, and having reached the semi-finals in Paris, he could be the man.
"I think if I play well, it can be a great clay-court season," he said. "As long as Rafa is there and he's playing that well, it's always going to be tough. There's only little opportunities for everybody.
"But besides him I think the field is very open for everybody. He is on the top, but beyond that there are good opportunities for a bunch of players."
With the Masters 1000 events to come in Madrid and Rome, it's not as if he will be able to take it easy before attacking the title at Roland Garros, but that mini-break can only do him good in the long run.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
STUTTGART, Germany -- Petra Kvitova and Karolina Pliskova gave the Czech Republic a 2-0 lead over Germany in the Fed Cup semifinals with dominant displays in their opening matches Saturday.
Kvitova defeated Julia Goerges 6-3, 6-2, before Pliskova followed up with a 7-5, 6-3 win over two-time Grand Slam winner Angelique Kerber in the World Group.
"No one expected it," said Pliskova, who had 15 aces, after the German hosts failed to win a set.
Goerges lasted only an hour with 23 unforced errors against the 10th-ranked Kvitova, who dropped just two points on her serve in the second set and converted four of five break points.
It was Kvitova's 29th singles win in the Fed Cup.
The German team will have to win both reverse singles matches and the doubles on Sunday to reach its first final since 2014.
"I think everything is possible in the Fed Cup," Goerges said. "Nothing's decided yet. We shouldn't lose hope.".
The 10-time champion Czechs have a 7-1 head-to-head record over their hosts. The Germans' only win came in 1987 when Steffi Graf was part of the team that beat Czechoslovakia 2-1 in the World Group semifinals in Vancouver.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MONACO -- Rafael Nadal won a record 31st Masters title after beating Kei Nishikori 6-3, 6-2 in the Monte Carlo Masters final Sunday.
Nadal also became the first man in the Open era to win the same title 11 times -- 13 years after his first title here -- and moved one ahead of rival Novak Djokovic for career Masters titles.
"Eleven titles here, it's unbelievable. It's something difficult to imagine,'' said the 31-year-old Nadal, who won his first tournament here in 2005. "The history with this tournament is unique.''
It gave him a 76th title overall and ensured the Spaniard keeps his top ranking ahead of Roger Federer.
"To put another trophy in my museum, in my academy, is going to be something great,'' Nadal said. "This is one of the most important ones in terms of [my] personal feeling.''
Nishikori was chasing a first Masters title, but the Japanese player took 11 minutes to hold for 1-1.
He got some brief hope, breaking Nadal with a superb passing shot at full stretch to lead 2-1, but meekly surrendered the next four games.
"I knew it was going to be tough even though I was up break,'' said Nishikori, who complained of tiredness. "My legs were very heavy today, playing three sets [for] three days in a row [before the final]. It wasn't easy physically.''
The second set was a procession and Nadal won on his first match point with a stinging backhand winner.
Nadal's celebration was brief and low-key. He thrust both hands into the air, and then jogged over to offer Nishikori a sympathetic hug after beating him for the 10th time in 12 meetings.
Nishikori saved a set point with a sharp, angled volley at the net. But Nadal was in relentless mood and sealed it on his next chance with a crisp forehand winner.
"It's not easy to describe when you are coming back from injury and you start the clay-court season in this way,'' Nadal said.
Nishikori is still working his way back to form and full fitness, after missing the 2017 US Open and this year's Australian Open because of a torn tendon in his right wrist.
"It was a great week for me; I had an injury and couldn't play for a long time,'' said Nishikori, whose ranking has slipped to 36.
He can take encouragement from beating Tomas Berdych -- the 2015 runner-up here -- and Australian Open runner-up Marin Cilic on the way to the final.
Nadal has not dropped a set in seven matches since coming back from a recurrence of a right hip injury that forced him to abandon during the fifth set of his Australian Open quarterfinal against Cilic.
The injury relapse subsequently forced him out of the Mexico Open and Masters tournaments at Indian Wells and Miami, but Nadal now looks back to his ruthless best on clay.
He has his sights firmly set on an 11th title at Barcelona next week and then an 11th French Open title at Roland Garros.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Monte Carlo experienced a Rafael Nadal tsunami last week, leaving many to wonder if the developing clay-court season will hold any suspense on Sundays.
Rafael Nadal won a record 31st Masters title by beating Kei Nishikori 6-3, 6-2 in the Monte Carlo Masters on Sunday.
Should we give Rafa the French Open trophy now? All it took was one Davis Cup weekend to remind us that Rafael Nadal is far and away the best player on clay.
Nadal launched his Euroclay campaign by ripping through five consecutive matches in what, at the outset, looked like a tough draw. When Nadal dismantled Kei Nishikori 6-3, 6-2 in the Monte Carlo final, it marked his 14th consecutive win on clay without losing a single set. He also become the first man in pro tour history to win the same title -- a Masters 1000 event, no less -- 11 times, a triumph that also made Nadal the all-time Masters title earner with 31.
The cherry atop his Sunday: Nadal surpassed John McEnroe on the "most weeks at No. 1" list (now 171 weeks for Nadal).
The pundits were rendered either speechless or driven to flights of poetic fancy.
Justin Gimelstob, the Tennis Channel analyst who called most of Nadal's Monte Carlo matches, told ESPN.com on Monday: "Rafa is essentially a Marvel comics superhero. This just isn't normal stuff. He's a perfect storm to the point where the goal for most guys is just to be able to compete with him, never mind beat him."
It isn't hyperbole. But as thoroughly as Nadal dominated in Monte Carlo, officials at the rest of the upcoming clay events shouldn't feel pressured to make out those first-place prize money checks to Nadal just yet.
For one thing, Nadal isn't just being the humble and thankful champion when he reiterates, "My goal is always the same thing: Be healthy, because if I am not healthy, I cannot have any goal; second goal is be happy. That's it. Then ... I know that normally I have good chances to play good tennis."
Nadal has learned the real value of those words in recent years. Who, including Nadal himself, could foresee that a freak tweak of his hip would force Nadal to abandon his quarterfinal clash with Marin Cilic months ago in the Australian Open? That episode harkened back to a moment in 2016 when Nadal, looking unbeatable at the French Open, had to withdraw before his third round match with a wrist injury.
It's easy to forget those and other breakdowns and interludes while watching Nadal pulverize opponents the way he did in Monaco. Just like you never imagine the Corvette not starting when you slip the key in the ignition.
There also were stirrings of resurgence among some reliable challengers in Monaco, including Nadal's once-lethal rival, Novak Djokovic, and that perennial contender, Juan Martin del Potro.
Djokovic, reunited with his former coach Marian Vajda, looked replenished, relaxed and ready to bust out of his puzzling slump. He told the press he was determined to reclaim the No. 1 ranking, then won two matches -- and rushed out to secure a wild card for this week's event in Barcelona. The enthusiasm, at least, is there.
Del Potro wrecked opponents during the U.S. hard-court segment with that monstrous serve and forehand. He took a few weeks off, skipping Monte Carlo, and he ought to be a major force when he returns fit and determined to improve his No. 6 ranking.
"My body feels that [clay] surface," Del Potro said at the Miami Open. "I want to stay healthy during the whole season. That's my biggest goal."
Nishikori's recovery from a wrist injury that kept him off the tour for nearly six months advanced by a great leap, although he had little gas in the tank for the final. Unseeded, he played one more match than Nadal. Four of Nishikori's five matches went three sets, and he erased some big names: Tomas Berdych, Cilic and Alexander Zverev.
"It was great week for me," Nishikori insisted in his presser following the final, adding, "Maybe my body, especially my legs, were very heavy today."
Giant killer David Goffin returned from a freak eye injury and won a few matches, while players such as Zverev, Cilic, Grigor Dimitrov and Dominic Thiem all looked to be on the upswing, prepared for the challenge of clay during the week. The draw played out predictably without even a surprise quarterfinalist.
Taken individually, none of the previously mentioned players seem like much of a threat to the "King of Clay." But having to beat a number of them in succession, week after week, could prove a daunting mission. Tennis is a sport of individuals, but it's going to take a team effort to stop Nadal. That team might be assembling.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Who's going to beat Rafael Nadal on clay this year? Short answer: Nobody. Long answer: Stuff happens.
Remember 2009? Robin Soderling happened to Nadal at the French Open. Sure, Nadal was struggling with tendinitis in his knees. But he showed up, swung the racket -- and there went his perfect 31-0, four-year Roland Garros string of perfection.
It's ridiculous to try to predict who will next beat Nadal on red dirt. But we can take a look at the contenders who have at least a small shot to unseat the King of Clay. We'll include their 52-week clay-court record, as well as their overall record against Nadal.
Alexander Zverev: 17-4 on clay, 0-3 vs. Nadal
Zverev, still just 21 but solidly entrenched at No. 3 in the ATP rankings, already has won a Masters 1000 on clay (Rome, 2017). He appears to have the tools that have posed problems for Nadal, even on slow surfaces: a smoking serve, big wingspan (he's 6-foot-6) and the ability to attack and shorten points. But Nadal crushed Zverev just two weeks ago on clay in Monte Carlo, 6-1, 6-1. The big issue: Zverev's movement. "He's still young; he just isn't as mobile or quick as some of the other guys yet," ESPN analyst Chris Evert told ESPN.com. "He's moving a little better now but may not be ready for this big a job yet."
 Marin Cilic: 16-5 on clay, 2-5 vs. Nadal
Cilic, also 6-foot-6, is a sleeper in the beat-Rafa sweepstakes because he moves very well for a big man and is capable of overpowering anyone on a given day. A former US Open champion, the world No. 4 reached the final in two of the past three majors -- Wimbledon (2017) and the recent Australian Open. He has an excellent 52-week record on clay and the two-handed backhand that seems a prerequisite for holding your own against the King of Clay.
But Cilic didn't post any standout wins on the dirt. His win over Nadal in the quarters of the Australian Open has an asterisk because Nadal retired in the fifth set of that excruciatingly close contest. Cilic's other win over Nadal also was on a hard court -- way back in 2009 in Beijing.
 Grigor Dimitrov: 9-5 on clay, 1-11 vs. Nadal
Fans tend to love Dimitrov's explosive, exuberant one-handed backhand. But as one Tennis Channel commentator said on air last week: "No right-hander with a one-handed backhand is going to beat Nadal on red clay." Dimitrov, ranked No. 5, is a spectacular shot-maker, so you can't count him out. But his game isn't quite big enough to smother Nadal's, and Dimitrov falls a little short in the patience and attention-span departments -- as his so-so clay record suggests.
 Juan Martin del Potro: 7-3 on clay, 5-9 vs. Nadal
There's something about No. 6-ranked del Potro. He showed it again at the Indian Wells final, where he outlasted defending champion Roger Federer in a third-set tiebreaker to win. Delpo is fearless. He feels entitled. He steps up. His rivals at the top know it too. And that can make a world of difference. He has a devastating serve and a forehand that can jar an opponent's fillings loose. The big question: Will del Potro's damaged wrists stand up to the punishment and deliver those power two-handed backhands? He has a decent record against Nadal (relatively speaking), but none of those wins was on clay.
 Dominic Thiem, 24-6 on clay, 2-6 vs. Nadal
Thiem, ranked No. 7, is the last man to beat Nadal on red dirt. He did it last year on the relatively fast, golden clay of Rome. True, he's a right-hander with a one-handed backhand. But it's his vision of the game rather than his palette of strokes that lifts Thiem above the pack. Like Nadal, he's a true clay-courter. He's willing to grind all day. He plays from the nether regions of the court. He takes huge cuts, produces a lot of spin and has the stamina of a bull. A victim of his own precocious success, the powerful Austrian, 24, has nine ATP titles.
 John Isner: 8-4 on clay, 0-7 vs. Nadal  
Why include a 33-year-old player who has never beaten Nadal and has just one clay-court title to his name in this company? Simply because Isner enjoys playing on clay. He also knows how to exploit every advantage offered by his serve -- the most dangerous in the game. He's playing confident, loose tennis following his big win at the Miami Open. Is a 7-6, 7-6 win on clay over Nadal really that difficult to imagine?
 Fabio Fognini: 21-10, 3-10 vs. Nadal
Confidence matters. Fognini, ranked No. 20, is full of the unpredictable and creative deviltry that can keep a straightforward player like Nadal off balance and frustrated. Fognini demonstrated that in 2015, when he logged two wins over Nadal on clay. There's scar tissue there, and both men know it. Fognini is one of the game's real originals, but he runs on inspiration. He can blow out a guy one week and get blown out by the same opponent a week later, but his 52-week record on clay is solid.
 Hyeon Chung: 10-3 on clay, 0-2 vs. Nadal
Chung is challenging Zverev for the top spot among 21-and-under players. He's a superb, Nadal-esque defender with great stamina. Chung's shortcomings are on offense, where his serve is vulnerable and he has no killing shot. However, his temperament is outstanding.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
It's kind of a good news, bad news situation: Serena Williams, the Open era Grand Slam singles champions, is sitting on the sidelines, patiently biding her time before jumping back into the tournament fray. Victoria Azarenka, another former No. 1, is still sorting out her custody issues. And career Grand-Slammer Maria Sharapova is just returning from another injury.
It has to be disconcerting for the WTA as the Euroclay season picks up steam without these megastars, but for opportunists, this isn't the worst situation. That group includes a U.S. contingent of 15 women presently ranked in the top 100. Do any of them have a shot at breaking through? Let's look at the top U.S. contenders:
No. 8 Venus Williams
Career on clay: 169-57 (9 titles)
Record last 52 weeks on clay: 6-2
At age 37, Williams is in a bit of a bind. She's ranked No. 8 in the world and has been a French Open finalist (albeit way back in 2002). But she's cut back her schedule drastically, and clay is a surface that rewards players who take the time to get in a groove over the course of weeks. Last year, Williams played just one clay event before Roland Garros, winning three matches in Rome. She still made the fourth round of the French Open. It's hard to imagine her doing better than that; easy to see her doing worse.
No. 9 Sloane Stephens
Career on clay: 68-40 (1 title)
Record last 52 weeks on clay: 2-1
Stephens had the misfortune to run into very hot fellow countrywoman CoCo Vandeweghe in the first round of Stuttgart last week. The result was a terrible 6-1, 6-0 beating. But Stephens likes playing on clay. She has cat-like quickness, a versatile, many-hued game, and a low-stress way of moving that's easy on the body. She is rarin' to go in Europe, having missed it last year because of injury. A perennial fourth-round player in Paris, Stephens may be ready for the next step or two -- or three.
Wimbledon chiefs are seeking clarification over whether seven-time champion Serena Williams, now World No. 449, can be seeded at this year's Championships.
Fifth-seeded Fabio Fognini lost 5-7, 6-3, 6-2 to Italian compatriot Marco Cecchinato on a day of upsets at the Munich Open on Tuesday.
Rafael Nadal celebrated his 11th title at the Barcelona Open by taking a shirtless-plunge into a swimming pool with the tournament's ball boys and girls.
No. 13 CoCo Vandeweghe
Career on clay: 32-37 (0 titles)
Record last 52 weeks on clay: 7-4
The most telling detail in Vandeweghe's resume might be that, thanks to her recent win over Simona Halep in Stuttgart, is that she's now 3-1 over top-ranked players. That's how dangerous -- and overpowering -- she can be. But consistency has always been her shortcoming, and that's merely the ante at the high-stakes clay table. A mercurial 26-year-old, Vandeweghe is a terrific, bold shot-maker. She has great power, strong legs and good stamina. Her movement is solid given her large 6-foot-1 frame. But she needs to learn to keep two things under control: her temper and the ball. It's not like they're not related.
No. 14 Madison Keys
Career on clay: 47-29 (0 titles)
Record last 52 weeks on clay: 5-5
Keys has made a specialty of losing very close matches on red dirt to solid clay-court players. If she gets over that hump, she could do real damage. Like Vandeweghe, she's a ferocious ball-striker with excellent movement for a big person. But she's always had trouble staying dialed in, set to set, match-to-match. That's a critical flaw on clay, where consistency rules. But clay works to the advantage of big hitters in one subtle way: The slow pace of the court gives them more time to reach a ball, set up, and give it a ride. From there, it becomes a matter of consistency and accuracy.
No. 44 Catherine Bellis
Career on clay: 18-15 (0 titles)
Record last 52 weeks on clay: 8-4
Bellis has some of the earmarks of a great clay-court competitor, even though her best results have been on hard courts. She's just 5-foot-7, and while she lacks pre-emptive firepower, she has compact strokes. She's also mobile, consistent and mentally ever-present, much like seven-time French Open champ Chris Evert. Sure, it's a different game these days, but there's always room in the clay game for the quick, steady counterpuncher. Bellis could become that if she takes it upon herself to master the nuances of this part of the season.
No. 45 Danielle Collins
Career on clay: 0-0
Record last 52 weeks on clay: 0-0
This two-time NCAA singles champ -- and recent surprise semifinalist at the Miami Open -- has shot up in the rankings. Collins is an intelligent, resourceful late-bloomer of 24 who has a great deal of poise. She moves well and plays a probing, aggressive baseline game. She's 53-22 over the past year in pro tournaments that award WTA rankings points. Will her impressive game translate on clay?
The others
After Collins, there's a 30-place drop-off for the Americans to No. 75 Varvara Lepchenko. Filling out the top 100 for the U.S. women are: Sachia Vickery (No. 78), Jennifer Brady (No. 81) Taylor Townsend (No. 85), Christina McHale (No. 90), Sofia Kenin (No. 92), Alison Riske (No. 94), Madison Brengle (No. 97) and Bernarda Pera (No. 98).
Shelby Rogers isn't even in the top 100. At No. 107, she's on the bubble for qualifying for the French Open, where she was a surprise quarterfinalist in 2016. It's a reminder that anything can happen, and the more players you have in the mix, the more unpredictable the results will be.
For the American women, the sheer number of contenders suggests unpredictable to evolve into Cinderella story by the time Roland Garros concludes.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ESTORIL, Portugal -- Joao Sousa beat Frances Tiafoe 6-4, 6-4 in the Estoril Open final on Sunday to become the first Portuguese-born player to win an ATP tour event on home soil.
Sousa had four aces and broke his American opponent's serve four times on the outdoor clay court.
It was the 29-year-old Sousa's third career title and his first since 2015.
The 20-year-old Tiafoe was seeking his second career title after winning the Delray Beach Open in February.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
By the time Frances Tiafoe made it around the net to embrace clay-caked Joao Sousa, the first native son to win the title in Estoril, Portugal, the young American was on the verge of tears -- and not because he had just lost a final, only the second of his career.
"The way [Sousa] felt afterward, it almost brought tears to me," Tiafoe told the media after Sunday's final. "I know it was a really big win for him. The whole country was behind him. I respected that. And he's a great guy, always been nice to me."
There isn't much room in competitive tennis for the kind of empathy Tiafoe felt for Sousa on the tennis court. This 6-4, 6-4 loss will go down as a learning experience for Tiafoe -- one that may come in handy in the coming weeks, should he find himself having to match wits with sly Fabio Fognini before an Italian crowd in Rome, or exchanging forehand bullets with Gael Monfils with a stadium full of Frenchmen crying "Allez!" with every juke by "LaMonf" at Roland Garros.
Joao Sousa beat Frances Tiafoe 6-4, 6-4 to win the Estoril Open final on Sunday, becoming the first Portuguese-born player to win an ATP tour event on home soil.
Alexander Zverev, the world No. 3, defeated three-time former champion Philipp Kohlschreiber 6-3, 6-3 to defend his Munich Open title on Sunday.
Two-time defending champion Simona Halep brushed aside Ekaterina Makarova 6-1, 6-0 in the first round of the Madrid Open on Sunday.
Those scenarios aren't implausible, as Tiafoe could be the American player who goes deepest at the Italian Open or French Open. There's no denying that, as he showed in Estoril. As of Monday, the 20-year-old Tiafoe is ranked a career-high No. 57. This could be a breakout year for him, and he has none of the hang-ups so many Americans feel about the red clay of Europe.
Tiafoe's finish in Estoril makes him the first American man to play a final on European clay since Brian Baker made the final in Nice in 2012. Baker was a junior French Open runner-up whose promising career was irrevocably damaged by injuries.
"I grew up playing a lot on clay," Tiafoe told ESPN.com during the Miami Open. "Maybe I had a little more success on hard courts, but there are more tournaments on hard. I feel good on clay. I've always enjoyed playing on it."
On his way up the pro ladder, Tiafoe was 2-3 in clay-court finals on the ATP Challenger and ITF Futures tours, and 3-4 on hard courts. On the main tour, Tiafoe won his first ATP title on hard courts at Delray Beach earlier this year. Estoril was his second final.
Tiafoe had noteworthy wins at both tournaments. At Delray, he upended No. 6 Juan Martin del Potro and two of his #Nextgen rivals, Denis Shapovalov and No. 22 Hyeon Chung. In Estoril, he beat Gilles Muller and No. 2 seed Pablo Carreno Busta, a clay-court expert and former Estoril champ. He also saved three match points in his first-round win over fellow American Tennys Sandgren.
"I beat some quality players this week," Tiafoe said in Estoril. "I'm on cloud nine."
Tiafoe has positioned himself alongside Steve Johnson and John Isner as one of the three Americans most likely to make a strong showing at the French Open. Isner has gone the deepest -- the fourth round, twice. Johnson has won some matches, too.
Tiafoe, on the other hand, has been frustrated in his first two attempts at Roland Garros. But he was a 17-year-old wild card the first time, in 2015. Last year, he stretched Fognini to five sets in a first-round loss. It was the second best-of-five match in Tiafoe's career.
Tiafoe still needs to rein in and sand off some of the rough edges of his game. He needs to sustain his concentration for longer periods. Robby Ginepri, his coach since the fall of 2016, has done good work, most notably in making Tiafoe's explosive serve more consistent, especially in pressure situations. That wandering toss is now more stable.
On Sunday, as Sousa lay on the court immediately after match point, tears already welling in his eyes, Tiafoe walked around the net post to give the winner a hug and words of congratulations. Tiafoe sensed that this one had "fate" written all over it.
"I left a lot of balls short and he took advantage," Tiafoe said. "He took advantage and he put a lot of pressure on me. I wasn't tired; it was mostly the crowd. I never played a match like that before, against a hometown hero. My feet were like stones."
A moment later, Tiafoe reassured his audience that it isn't likely to happen that way too often in the future.
"I hope [Sousa] enjoys this one," Tiafoe added, laughing. "It's not going to happen this way next year."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MADRID -- Novak Djokovic notched an encouraging victory in his comeback from a right elbow injury when he beat Kei Nishikori 7-5, 6-4 in the first round of the Madrid Open on Monday.
Djokovic broke serve late in each set to get past the 20th-ranked Nishikori after nearly two hours in the Magic Box.
Djokovic hasn't made it to the quarterfinals in his previous five tournaments this year, admitting he returned to tennis too quickly. In his last event, he lost in the third round in Monte Carlo, where Nishikori reached the final.
Djokovic was aggressive from the start, hitting 26 winners against Nishikori, who has made at least the Madrid quarterfinals for the past five years. He was a finalist in 2014, losing to Rafael Nadal.
"The draw was such that we had to face in the first round, which is a bit strange,'' Djokovic said. "But it was a good opening match.''
Maria Sharapova, who won in Madrid in 2014, made it to the last 16 by defeating Irina-Camelia Begu 7-5, 6-1 in only her second match since the Australian Open. She has been dealing with a left forearm injury.
"It was a lot of hard work,'' Sharapova said of her match. "Being down a break to start off both of those sets didn't make things easy for me. That will certainly help me moving forward.''
Australian Open champion Caroline Wozniacki edged past Ashleigh Barty 6-2, 4-6, 6-4. Wozniacki reached the 2009 final on debut and hasn't been close since.
"I was lucky to get away with it in that third set,'' the second-seeded Wozniacki said.
Milos Raonic defeated Nicolas Kicker 6-3, 6-2 to set up a second-round encounter with third-seeded Grigor Dimitrov, while Richard Gasquet beat Tomas Berdych 6-4, 6-2 to advance to play qualifier Dusan Lajovic, who got past Karen Khachanov 6-3, 6-2.
In a first-round match between Frenchmen, Benoit Paire hit 39 winners to defeat 18th-ranked Lucas Pouille 6-2, 6-3, advancing to face 19-year-old Denis Shapovalov of Canada, who got past Tennys Sandgren of the U.S. 6-1, 6-4.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
It was a first-round pairing that must have made both players groan when the draw was announced, but that's also the kind of match on which comebacks are built and careers may start to turn around.
By the time the shadows grew long on the still, sunny Monday afternoon at the Madrid Masters, Novak Djokovic had new reason to feel optimistic about his future while Kei Nishikori was reminded that there's no shortcut back from a wrist injury in the hand that swings the racket.
Djokovic won this opening-day battle of the wounded stars, 7-5, 6-4. It was, after a sputtering, tentative start by both men, a solid, well-played match that lasted nearly two hours. The result was decided by Djokovic service breaks late in each set.
Novak Djokovic posted a 7-5, 6-4 victory over Kei Nishikori in the first round of the Madrid Open on Monday.
Alexander Zverev, the world No. 3, defeated three-time former champion Philipp Kohlschreiber 6-3, 6-3 to defend his Munich Open title on Sunday.
He's got game, and he digs clay. Frances Tiafoe has every reason to believe he will thrive once Roland Garros rolls around.
"I was looking forward to have these kind of matches, looking to try to win these kind of matches," Djokovic told the press afterwards. "So that's why it was really a perfect scenario to start off the tournament. It's great. I couldn't ask for a better start."
It was the kind of win Djokovic, who was just 5-5 on the year coming into Madrid, desperately needs -- and not just to keep his head above water in the W-L department. Djokovic, currently ranked No. 12, is defending semifinal rankings points in Madrid. He can't afford to slip too much lower for seeding purposes with two Grand Slam events looming.
At times in the Caja Magica or "Magic Box," Djokovic looked like the punishing slugger of yore. He led with his chin, stepping into the court to seize control of points. He dictated with that windshield wiper forehand, crushed inside-out winners. He found some of those acute angles that once spiced up his basic game plan at his best. He was mobile and flexible, stretching and lunging, finding ways to produce stinging backhands from a contortionist's posture.
"I think I could play a little better, but I think he was playing good tennis today," Nishikori said in his press conference. "If something clicks for him, he's going to come back again to top-10 level."
It would almost surely take more than a simple click, as Djokovic fell far and hard. Starting in mid-2016, shortly after he completed his career Grand Slam at the French Open, Djokovic spiraled into a crisis that had repercussions in his private life as well as his career. The slump and elbow pain that ultimately caused him to pull out of the tour midway through an unsatisfying 2017 was the least of it.
It's too early to tell, but the solution to Djokovic's problems might have been staring him in the face. In May of 2017, he dismissed the entire support team that had created his success up to mid-2016. The key components in that original team were head coach Marian Vajda and trainer Gebhard Gritsch.
After experimenting with various other advisers, including Andre Agassi and recently retired pro Radek Stepanek, Djokovic reconnected with Vajda and Gritsch shortly after his dismal hard-court swing in North America this year.
"I'm happy to have Marian and G.G back in the box, back in my team, back in my life, so to say, on a daily, weekly basis," Djokovic said. "They know my game very well, but it's still a process. It will take some time. I haven't had too many of the matches like this, too many consecutive matches won. I'm still looking for that match play."
On Monday, it looked like he's going to find it. And soon.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MADRID -- Tennis star Rafael Nadal has put himself in the middle of a soccer controversy in Madrid.
A longtime Real Madrid supporter, Nadal appeared with an Atletico Madrid jersey during the club's Europa League match against Arsenal last week, making headlines across Spain and attracting a wave of social media reactions from fans from both teams.
Nadal couldn't avoid the issue when he arrived in the Spanish capital for this week's Madrid Open.
"Well, there is a problem with today's society, that to be a true supporter of one team, it seems that you have to be anti another team," Nadal said Monday. "I just support Real Madrid. I have a lot of friends that are from Atletico. They are playing in a competition in Europe against an English team. I just went there to support Atletico Madrid. They invited me. I just wanted to enjoy the day, to see a great football match."
Nadal was captured on camera with the jersey around his neck during the team's 1-0 win at Wanda Metropolitano stadium on Thursday, a result that allowed Atletico to reach the final of Europe's second-tiered club competition.
"The [club's] president gave me a T-shirt as a gift," Nadal said. "At night it was a little bit chilly, a little bit cold, and I just used it as a scarf. That's all. But it's always the same stuff. Maybe there's too much hypocrisy, or I would say you people in the media have to write too many things, so you have to explore some stupid things."
Nadal also discussed Sunday's Clasico between Barcelona and Real Madrid, which ended in a 2-2 draw after several questionable calls made by the officiating crew at Camp Nou stadium.
"I don't have to talk about football referees," Nadal said. "The poor referee will have a lot on his back because you have been speaking about them for hours and hours. I'm not going to contribute to that show. I think it was a great football match, nice to see. I really enjoyed the football."
Nadal said he favors after-game sanctions to try to make the referees' life easier.
"Maybe I am very passionate about football, and I'm not criticizing football," he said. "But at the end of the day, the referees have a very hard job. It's very difficult to make decisions when you are under pressure. There are sometimes many players that try to trick other players ... It's just a show."
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
ROME -- Serena Williams has withdrawn from next week's Italian Open, saying she needs more time to be "100 percent ready to compete."
The tournament made the announcement via Twitter.
Williams returned to the tour briefly this year after a 14-month absence to give birth to her daughter.
The 23-time Grand Slam champion also withdrew from this week's Madrid Open, and sitting out Rome puts her status for the French Open, which starts May 27, in doubt.
Williams, a four-time Italian Open champion, has not played since her first-round loss to Naomi Osaka in March at the Miami Open.
Fellow American Catherine Bellis takes Williams' place in the Rome draw.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Serena Williams has committed to return to the Bay Area this summer and play in the former Stanford WTA stop that will move to San Jose State University for the first time.
Serena Williams has withdrawn from next week's Italian Open, saying she needs more time to be "100 percent ready to compete."
Williams, a 23-time Grand Slam champion, announced her plans Thursday to open the summer hard court season in San Jose -- a marquee addition for the Mubadala Silicon Valley Classic that runs from July 30 to Aug. 5.
Five-time Grand Slam champion Maria Sharapova committed to the event last month. US Open finalist Madison Keys and 2017 Stanford singles finalist CoCo Vandeweghe also are scheduled to be in the 28-player singles field.
The tournament formerly known as the Bank of the West Classic had previously been held at Stanford.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MADRID -- Rafael Nadal has found a worthy rival on clay.
Dominic Thiem beat the top-ranked Nadal 7-5, 6-3 in the Madrid Open quarterfinals on Friday, breaking the defending champion's run of 21 straight wins on clay courts.
Nadal hadn't lost a single set on clay since falling to Thiem a year ago in the Italian Open quarterfinals.
But Thiem succeeded in doing the nearly impossible with his deep drives: Make Nadal look sluggish and a step slow on clay.
Nadal will lose his world No. 1 ranking to Roger Federer because of the defeat.
"Of course I am disappointed," Nadal said. "I tried to fight back but I wasn't good enough and he was better. Dominic has a lot of potential. Whenever he plays really well, it is difficult to stop him."
Since last year's loss to Thiem, Nadal had been impeccable on his preferred surface. He won the French Open and the hard-court U.S. Open to take his Grand Slam haul to 16, and he came to the Spanish capital fresh off winning his 11th titles at both Monte Carlo and Barcelona.
Nadal, however, said the loss was not a reason to doubt his chances to add to his 10 French Open titles in the coming weeks.
"I won 50 straight sets on this surface," he said. "Today I lost the match. It was not my day. But that is part of the sport. So I can't go back to my hotel and think that I have to do a lot of things different to prepare for the next events because that wouldn't be smart."
Nadal brushed aside Thiem 6-0, 6-2 just three weeks ago at Monte Carlo, where the Austrian was returning after being sidelined for a month due to a broken foot.
Thiem was in stellar form at Madrid's Caja Magica. He got the better of long rallies by hitting precise winners, and avoided the costly errors that sunk Nadal's title defense.
"He always had position to move around and to play a good shot, to strike the ball in a comfortable position," Nadal said. "It's difficult to harm a player like him because he is very powerful, he strikes the ball very hard."
The fifth-seeded Thiem avenged his loss to Nadal here in last year's final, and earned his third career victory in nine meetings with Nadal, all on clay.
"It's one of the toughest things to do to beat Rafa on clay," Thiem said. "It's so special, amazing, in his home country and in his living room in Madrid. It was an amazing match."
Thiem will face sixth-seeded Kevin Anderson in the semifinals after he hit 15 aces to down Dusan Lajovic 7-6 (3), 3-6, 6-3.
Nadal said on Thursday, after breaking John McEnroe's 1984 record for sets won on the same surface by winning his 50th straight set on clay, that he expected the match against Thiem to be "key to this tournament."
He was right to be worried.
Thiem unsettled Nadal from the start, breaking his serve twice in the first set.
Nadal appeared to have salvaged the opening set when he broke Thiem back for 5-5, but the Austrian took the advantage right back after Nadal sent a forehand into the net.
Thiem then struck an ace to complete the set.
His shirt drenched in sweat, Nadal looked stunned in the second set when he sent four serves in a row into the net for back-to-back double faults before he ceded another break to go down 2-1.
Nadal pulled back a break, but couldn't defend his serve and Thiem broke him twice more, finishing off the world No. 1 with one final forehand winner.
"If you want to beat him, especially on clay, you have to do something special. If I had played normal I would have no chance," Thiem said. "I had to go for shots and go down the line and everything worked today. To beat Rafa on clay you have to have a special day."
Second-seeded Alexander Zverev beat seventh-seeded John Isner 6-4, 7-5 to also advance.
Zverev will face Denis Shapovalov after he outlasted Kyle Edmund 7-5, 6-7 (6), 6-4.
On the women's side, two-time former Madrid champion Petra Kvitova beat Karolina Pliskova 7-6 (4), 6-3, in an all-Czech semifinal.
Kvitova will meet Kiki Bertens in the final after she beat seventh-seeded Caroline Garcia 6-2, 6-2.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MADRID -- When Petra Kvitova thought she couldn't go on, the Czech hit the critical shots to finally edge Kiki Bertens to claim a record third Madrid Open title on Saturday.
Kvitova outlasted Bertens 7-6 (6), 4-6, 6-3 in a grueling final decided when the unseeded Dutch player hit a backhand long on the final point after nearly three hours.
"Everything that I had in my body, I just tried to put it out, even if it was very, very tough today," said Kvitova, who was playing her 11th match in 13 days after also winning the Prague Open last weekend.
"In the third set, I was really thinking that I can't do it anymore. But then when you step [into] the shot again, you are just trying to hit the return, you play the rally, the serves, whatever."
Dominic Thiem, who upset top-ranked Rafael Nadal in the quarterfinals, easily advanced to the finals of the Madrid Open, beating Kevin Anderson.
Kvitova previously won on the Madrid clay in 2011 and 2015. This third win took the Czech's career total to 24 titles, including four in the first five months of 2018.
She and Bertens each had three breaks, with both saving many more chances.
The key moment came when Bertens appeared to swing the momentum in her favor by pulling back a break in the third set. Kvitova, however, immediately recovered the advantage for a 5-3 lead and served out for the championship.
"It was pretty difficult for me to have a break in the third set and lose my serve," Kvitova said. "Mentally, it was very difficult because I know how tough it is to break her. Luckily, the chance came for the second time."
Bertens' appearance in the final meant she will rise to a career-high 15th in the rankings. But that was little solace after having come so close to the title.
"It really hurts right now," Bertens said. "Maybe tomorrow or next week or in a few weeks I can really look back on a great week and know I'm on the right way."
The roof of the Caja Magica was closed without play being interrupted when it began raining in the second set.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
MADRID -- Second-seeded Alexander Zverev eased past fifth-seeded Dominic Thiem 6-4, 6-4 to win the Madrid Open on Sunday, claiming his second title in a week.
The German broke Thiem's opening service games in each set and didn't give his Austrian rival a single break chance, winning in 1 hour, 19 minutes.
Zverev won his eighth career title and second of the season after also winning the Munich Open last weekend.
"It is unbelievable," Zverev said. "This is my third Masters 1000 and I am only 21 years old. It has been an amazing journey."
Zverev dominated the entire week in the Spanish capital, not losing a single set en route to victory.
Thiem lost his second consecutive final at the Caja Magica. He avenged last year's final loss to Rafael Nadal by beating him in Friday's quarterfinals for the Spaniard's first clay-court loss in a year.
Zverev started strongly when Thiem conceded his first service game with a costly double fault.
Serving to close out the first set, Zverev trailed 0-30 but used his big serve to force deuce and finally closed out the point when Thiem's return sailed long.
Zverev started the second set in similar fashion, hitting a deep forehand that Thiem could only send into the net on the final point of his service game to fall behind a break.
It was Zverev's second win in six meetings with Thiem.
On Saturday, Petra Kvitova beat Kiki Bertens in three sets to win the women's title.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
Serena Williams' coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, believes the 23-time major champion will be ready for the French Open later this month, even though Williams has not played a clay-court tournament this season.
Serena Williams will play in the new Mubadala Silicon Valley Classic, which will take place from July 30 to Aug. 5 at San Jose State University.
Mouratoglou told WTATennis.com in an interview published Monday that he is "confident" Williams will be at Roland Garros for the start of the season's second Grand Slam on May 27.
"Serena will play the French Open to win it," Mouratoglou said. "Can she do it? Serena can achieve anything. After being her coach for six years, I'm even more sure of that statement."
But Mouratoglou acknowledged that Williams likely returned to WTA Tour play too soon after she gave birth to her first child in September.
"Serena clearly came back too early," he said. "She was not ready yet but needed to feel the competition, so she decided to play even though she was far from being at 100 percent. It was a good experience as she realized all the work that needed to be done in order for her to be really ready."
Williams played in two tournaments in March, losing to her sister Venus Williams in the third round at Indian Wells and being upset by Naomi Osaka in the first round of the Miami Open.
She then withdrew from clay tournaments in Madrid and Rome.
Mouratoglou said Williams has been preparing at the coach's tennis academy since late April.
Williams did not play in the 2017 French Open after announcing her pregnancy earlier that year. She is a three-time champion in Paris, winning the title in 2002, 2013 and 2015. Next week's tournament would be her first Grand Slam event since winning the Australian Open for the seventh time in January 2017.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
PARIS -- Jo-Wilfried Tsonga has withdrawn from the French Open because of a left knee injury.
OK, so it was just one loss, but looking ahead to the French Open, Rafael Nadal is that much less of a guarantee to be holding the winner's trophy.
The 2008 Australian Open runner-up from France said in a video posted on his Twitter account that he has not recovered following surgery.
The 37th-ranked Tsonga has not played since losing in the semifinals at the Open Sud de France in February.
The French Open starts May 27 at Roland Garros.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
There may have been weeping and gnashing of teeth in Barcelona when Rafael Nadal and his 21-match winning streak bit the red dust last week in Madrid. But you can bet they were offering moving champagne toasts to Dominic Thiem, the man who beat him, all over Paris that evening.
Nadal's loss to No. 7-ranked Thiem in the quarterfinals was like a jolt of much-needed adrenaline for the upcoming French Open. The odds on Nadal securing his record 11th title at Roland Garros -- and 17th Grand Slam title overall -- had been snowballing in recent weeks. Even the habitually cautious pundits were cringing at the prospect of having to "analyze" Nadal's chances of hoisting the hardware in Paris.
Serena Williams' coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, told WTATennis.com that he is "confident" Williams will be at Roland Garros for the start of the season's second Grand Slam on May 21.
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga has withdrawn from the French Open because of a left knee injury, saying in a video posted on his Twitter account that he has not recovered following surgery.
Second-seeded Alexander Zverev eased past fifth-seeded Dominic Thiem 6-4, 6-4 to win the Madrid Open on Sunday, claiming his second title in a week.
Justin Gimelstob of the Tennis Channel was bold enough to say what many where thinking: "No right-hander with a one-handed backhand is going to beat Nadal on clay this year."
Guess what? Thiem is a right-hander. With a one-handed backhand. Alexander Zverev also is a righty, and he has a useful one-handed backhand in addition to a lethal two-hander. That's significant, because the on-fire 21-year-old German, already ranked No. 3, mastered Thiem in the Madrid final Sunday with a stunning display of aggressive tennis.
Madrid is Zverev's third Masters 1000 title. He won it in Nadal-esque fashion, without dropping a set. He's just the fifth active player to win three of the top-tier ATP 1000 events on his résumé; the others are named Federer, Nadal, Djokovic and Murray.
French fans, who always have prized artistic tennis over Nadal's gritty, muscular game, can now hope a little more realistically for a tournament not dominated wire-to-wire by Nadal.
Thiem also was the last person to beat Nadal on clay, a year ago at the Rome Masters. He may not be in Rafa's head, but he's certainly taking a peek. Nadal clearly doesn't want him messing around in there.
When Nadal was asked after the match if he was especially concerned about the threat Thiem represents, the 31-year-old got a little huffy, reminding the reporter, "Well, three weeks ago, I beat him 6-0, 6-3. I don't know if that's a tough player or not."
That blowout win by Nadal was on slower clay in damp Monte Carlo, where Thiem's aggressive topspin shots didn't bounce quite as high nor did they take as much time away from Nadal as the high altitude and quicker courts in Madrid. But at some point, trying to find the answer to why Nadal lost by splitting hairs or identifying some magic bullet in Thiem's possession is a waste of time.
Nothing, not even Nadal's mind-blowing dominance on clay, lasts forever. He established a new record of 50 consecutive sets won the day before he met Thiem, but in their clash, the 24-year-old Austrian hit the ball harder, deeper and better.
Nadal certainly has had better days in Madrid's Caja Magica (Magic Box) but, as he said to reporters, "Thiem is a very powerful player. He has a lot of strength; he strikes the ball very hard, very violently. When you receive that ball, it's very difficult to respond."
This loss by Nadal was less surprising than the fact that he won those 50 consecutive sets on clay before it happened. It's an extraordinary feat, given the way even the top players can crash and burn on days when they are not at peak level. A Nadal, or Federer, can survive most players on such a day, but certainly not all of them.
"We're not playing a game where the differences [between the players] are big or massive," Nadal pointed out. "The differences are very small."
Those differences seem even smaller and more threatening to Nadal now that Zverev also has inserted himself into the Roland Garros sweepstakes. There are other players out there -- Juan Martin del Potro, Grigor Dimitrov and Marin Cilic among them -- whose games are big enough to take advantage of any hitch in Nadal's stride or glitch in his confidence.
This could all backfire in the face of Nadal's rivals. The end of his streak also reduces the pressure on him. Do they really want to see the King of Clay shake out the cobwebs and hit the reset button? This week's Rome Masters is the last major tune-up for the French Open. Nadal and Zverev are, respectively, the top two seeds. Thiem and Nadal may meet again in the quarterfinals.
The contenders will need to believe Nadal can be vulnerable, which became a little easier when Nadal's latest red-dirt spell was broken by Thiem. As the winner said in his news conference, "A very important thing also was that I went in with the attitude that I can beat him. Like this, I should go in every match against him. Also in maybe the next upcoming tournaments."
Fair warning. Pop that cork.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
LONDON -- Former top-20 tennis player Alize Cornet has been cleared of a doping charge by an independent tribunal.
The International Tennis Federation announced Tuesday that the decision was made because a doping control officer "did not satisfy all of the requirements" in trying to locate Cornet, 28, of France, for what originally was considered a third missed out-of-competition drug test in a 12-month span.
Missing three tests in a year is considered a doping offense.
The investigation of Cornet came to light in January.
The five-time WTA champion has been ranked as high as No. 11, in 2009, and is currently No. 32.
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?
